Under review as submission to TMLR




K-Bound: When Is Label-Free Adaptation Knowable?
Helpful, Harmful, and Unknowable Regimes Under Distribution Shift


Anonymous authors
Paper under double-blind review



                                                      Abstract

         Test-time adaptation can help without target labels, but updates can harm. We ask
         when label-free evidence supports a directionally correct action: ADAPT for a helpful
         fixed candidate, FREEZE for a harmful one, or explicit ABSTAIN. We report false-action
         denominators and utility preservation before regret consequences. For binary 0/1 loss,
         K-Bound uses sign(∆) = sign(M + γ) and a declared bound β on the hidden residual γ. The
         compatible-benefit set supports a strict direction exactly when |M | > β. An evidence-fibre
         theorem further shows that additional functions of the same label-free evidence cannot certify
         a smaller residual range. Knowability-Guided Adaptation (KGA) is an empirical companion,
         not an implementation of this frontier. Using labeled development and residual-calibration
         cells, it fits and calibrates a predictor of measured evaluation-cell benefit ∆cell ; the scored
         cell contributes label-free evidence only. On the opened, dependent, constructed six-family
         CIFAR-10-C diagnostic, Tent has 2/1,091 false ADAPT (2/2,160 overall) and 1/337 false
         FREEZE; EATA has 0/1,207 false ADAPT and 0/105 false FREEZE; SAR exposes 1,414
         ADAPT decisions and no FREEZE exposure. As secondary consequences, Tent and EATA
         have lower point regret than both fixed policies, whereas SAR favors always-adapt. On CCT-
         20, KGA makes 0/44/1 ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN decisions. All 45 served predictions
         use the frozen model, but the sole helpful cell receives FREEZE, yielding one false FREEZE
         among 44 FREEZE actions (1/45 overall). CCT-20 therefore supports only the locked
         utility-preservation endpoint, not selective routing. These protocol-scoped results do not
         establish interval coverage or population-risk protection on unseen natural shifts.


Keywords: test-time adaptation; adaptation gating; abstention; partial identification; distribution shift;
conformal calibration; selective decisions

 Anonymous build ID: KBOUND-2026-09-03-R1
 Document role: Anonymous integrated TMLR review manuscript
 Canonical panel SHA-256: 35d4c165843de1ece3cb35ffb4ac50dbfcbfa33b646754e2b6d133fbdfa78c6e
 Source-manifest SHA-256: 03b1d2b1e9e5ed1cf835126f871ed83eb8497a1ac81727b3955af0d69eb89742



1   Introduction

Test-time adaptation changes a model using unlabeled deployment data. Entropy minimization, filtering,
regularization, and related methods can recover accuracy under shift. The same update can also make
predictions worse under unfavorable shifts (Wang et al., 2021; Niu et al., 2022; 2023; Wang et al., 2022). The
central deployment question is therefore directional action correctness: an adapter supplies a candidate, not
a reason to deploy it.
Our primary research question is: When can evidence available without new target labels justify replacing a
frozen predictor with a fixed adapted candidate? Let f0 be the frozen predictor and fa the candidate. Their
population benefit is
                                               ∆ = RT (f0 ) − RT (fa ).                                     (1)


                                                           1
Under review as submission to TMLR




A positive value favors the update; a negative value favors the frozen model. We use three decisions. adapt
asserts positive benefit, freeze asserts negative benefit, and abstain asserts neither. Both non-adapt
decisions serve f0 , but only freeze makes a directional claim.
K-Bound treats this as partial identification. In a binary model under 0/1 loss, we fix the input law, the
predictors, and every label-free observable. We then vary the target label kernel within a declared class. The
compatible benefits give an exact frontier for uniform strict decisions. The class is indexed by a bound on a
hidden target calibration residual. That bound is an assumption, not a quantity supplied by an unlabeled
batch. A second theorem shows that an audit using the same evidence must cover the residual range that the
evidence leaves unresolved.
Knowability-Guided Adaptation (KGA) is the empirical companion. It predicts a model pair’s measured
benefit on an evaluation cell. It acts only when a residual-calibrated interval excludes zero. KGA is label-free
at the scored decision, not during development and calibration: labeled development cells train the predictor,
and disjoint residual-calibration cells calibrate its errors. No new cell outcome is read before its decision is
fixed. K-Bound is the population partial-identification framework; KGA is the empirical cell-benefit interval
gate. They share three-action decision logic, but not a target or guarantee: K-Bound reasons about population
benefit ∆ through (M, γ, β), whereas KGA predicts measured cell benefit ∆cell through (∆,     b ε).

1.1   Three Scientific Contributions
      1. Exact population frontier. We construct target label laws with identical label-free evidence, derive
         their feasible benefit interval, and characterize its strict positive, strict negative, and unresolved
         regions, including the zero-benefit boundary.
      2. Evidence-fibre audit limit. We identify the least residual bound that the same observable law can
         support uniformly, explaining why historical labels help only through a stated link to the deployment
         domain.
      3. Empirical paired-benefit gate. We give a cell-outcome-disjoint three-way cross-fit for the controlled
         grids and evaluate its ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN behavior on constructed shifts and its retention
         behavior on natural shifts. We report action exposure and false-action denominators before secondary
         accuracy and regret consequences. The standard coverage-to-action implication states exactly what
         follows if the interval covers its declared target.

The opened CIFAR-10-C diagnostic first asks whether each committed direction was correct and reports
the corresponding action exposure. Tent makes two false ADAPT actions and one false FREEZE; EATA
makes neither; SAR makes no FREEZE decisions. The secondary utility result is candidate-specific: Tent and
EATA have lower point regret than either fixed policy, whereas SAR favors always-adapt. CCT-20 instead
preserves frozen-model utility in all 45 cells with no ADAPT exposure. This is all-frozen fail-closed service,
not selective routing on an unseen natural shift. The appendices retain adverse, incomplete, and withheld
studies so that this boundary does not depend on removing unfavorable evidence.
Sections 3–5 define the population target, derive the strict-commitment frontier, and establish the evidence-
fibre audit floor. Section 6 introduces the separate empirical gate. Sections 7–8 report the controlled CIFAR
diagnostic and CCT-20 retention result. Section 9 states the assumptions, missing evidence, and deployment
limits.




                                                       2
Under review as submission to TMLR




                                         KGA empirical decision flow


                                                                                       ADAPT     b −ε>0
                                                                                                 ∆

              unlabeled     shadow         evidence        estimate    interval gate
                                                           ∆(Z), ε                     FREEZE ∆
                                                                                              b +ε<0
                batch     candidate fa     Z = ϕ(·)        b
                                                                        ∆±ε vs. 0
                                                                        b


                                                                                       ABSTAIN    0 ∈ [∆
                                                                                                       b − ε, ∆
                                                                                                              b + ε]



Figure 1: KGA’s empirical decision flow for one evaluation cell. A shadow adapter creates fa from frozen f0 .
Labeled development cells fit the benefit predictor, and disjoint residual-calibration cells determine its error
radius. The scored cell contributes label-free evidence only. An interval above zero selects adapt, one below
zero selects freeze, and an interval crossing zero selects abstain. The figure defines the action rule; it does
not establish interval coverage.


2     Related Work

2.1   Candidate Adaptation and Update Selection

Tent, EATA, SAR, CoTTA, MEMO, SHOT, and test-time training construct candidates through entropy
objectives, filtering, regularization, temporal stabilization, augmentation, or auxiliary tasks (Wang et al.,
2021; Niu et al., 2022; 2023; Wang et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2022; Liang et al., 2020; Sun et al., 2020). Other
methods decide where or when to update. TTSA selects modality-specific adapters (Chen et al., 2025). GALA
selects layers and filters samples by gradient alignment (Sahoo et al., 2025). Informed Adaptation learns
topological features associated with useful updates (Mutlu et al., 2026). KGA starts later in this pipeline: it
compares one realized candidate with its frozen baseline. Learned routing and rollback are established ideas,
not our novelty claim.

2.2   Label-Free Performance and Strategy Estimation

ATC, agreement-on-the-line, AETTA, and prediction-matrix statistics estimate performance from unlabeled
outputs and suitable development information (Garg et al., 2022; Baek et al., 2022; Miller et al., 2021; Lee et
al., 2024; Deng et al., 2023; Xie et al., 2024). The closest empirical comparator is Kim et al. (2024), whose
TTA/ALine method uses agreement-based estimators after adaptation, supports hyperparameter selection,
and compares adaptation strategies without labeled OOD data.
KGA directly fits the paired score difference for one frozen/candidate pair and converts its prediction interval
into a three-way action. Separate adapted- and frozen-model accuracy estimates can also be differenced;
a synchronized current-policy comparison with official TTA/ALine and AETTA implementations remains
missing.

2.3   Monitoring and Adaptation Controllers

POEM protects adaptation through entropy matching and online betting (Bar et al., 2024). Schirmer et al.
(2025) monitor an adapting model’s running risk against a source-risk reference under a proxy-informativeness
condition; a supervised precursor uses a labeled test stream (Podkopaev and Ramdas, 2022). Drift-to-Action
Controllers use delayed labels and sequential evidence to gate adaptation, abstention, rollback, and retraining
(Lamaakal et al., 2026). These methods act during an evolving stream. KGA instead decides whether one
proposed candidate should be committed before it replaces the frozen state; it makes no anytime-valid risk
claim.

2.4   Partial Identification and Robust Decisions

An identified set contains the values compatible with the observations and assumptions. Decision theory
under partial identification studies actions when that set leaves payoffs ambiguous. Christensen et al. (2026),
for example, combine worst-case payoff uncertainty with statistical learning of identified parameters. K-Bound


                                                             3
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 1: Neighboring approaches differ in inferential target, decision timing, and guarantee. The comparison
is conceptual; the archived empirical ports are not an official synchronized benchmark.
 Approach                 Target                              Decision timing              Guarantee relevant here
 TTA/ALine; AETTA         adapted-model performance           after candidate evaluation   performance estimate
 POEM; risk monitors      running adaptation risk             during or after adaptation   sequential monitoring     under
                                                                                           named assumptions
 Partial-identification   payoff set across compatible laws   decision under ambiguity     robust-decision context
 decisions
 K-Bound / KGA            population benefit set / pre-       before candidate commit-     strict frontier /     coverage-
                          dicted cell benefit                 ment                         conditional action



asks the narrower question of whether one strict benefit sign is uniform over the set. It neither solves the
general optimal-decision problem nor claims interval thresholding as a new idea.
Indistinguishable problems are already central to domain-adaptation impossibility (Ben-David et al., 2010a;b).
Our contribution is a disagreement-conditional label-kernel construction, the resulting clipped benefit set, and
its residual-audit floor. The proof does not introduce label-free impossibility. Risk-estimation assumptions
based on conditional independence (Steinhardt and Liang, 2016), label shift (Lipton et al., 2018; Garg et
al., 2020), or disagreement discrepancy (Rosenfeld and Garg, 2023) restrict the compatible laws. Likewise,
MMD-credal risk intervals impose RKHS and covariate-shift structure (Ariq, 2026). Each restriction can
shrink the identified set. A converse theorem for a richer class does not contradict those results.

2.5   Marginal and Conditional Coverage

Selective classification and reject-option learning abstain on individual predictions (Geifman and El-Yaniv,
2017; Chow, 1970; Cortes et al., 2016). KGA instead abstains on an update. Its coverage-to-action proposition
uses standard interval logic (Tibshirani et al., 2019; Barber et al., 2023; Bates et al., 2021; Angelopoulos et
al., 2025). The statistical burden is to justify coverage for the intended unit, especially after selection or
under shift.
Jin and Ren (2025)’s JOMI procedure targets coverage conditional on selection, assuming exchangeability
and a compatible selection rule. Gibbs et al. (2025) obtain conditional guarantees over specified shift classes
through a different calibration construction. KGA’s ordinary residual interval implements neither method. Its
marginal false-adapt implication must therefore remain separate from error conditional on ADAPT and from
coverage within each target environment. Learn Then Test addresses the separate problem of configuration
selection and multiplicity (Angelopoulos et al., 2025).

3     Setup, Notation, and Claim Levels

This section fixes the probability target, evaluation unit, model pair, and gate before defining actions or error
events. Table 2 separates the population and empirical symbols used throughout.

3.1   Model Pair, Evidence, and Evaluation Unit

Let (Ω, F, PT ) support a target draw (X, Y ), and let PS denote the source law. For loss ℓ, define

                                               RT (f ) = EPT [ℓ(f (X), Y )].

We condition on a realized pair of measurable predictors. The frozen predictor is f0 ; an adapter A uses an
unlabeled batch X1:m to construct the fixed candidate fa = A(f0 , X1:m ). Population risk then integrates a
fresh target draw while holding this pair fixed.
The gate may read label-free evidence
                                                   Z = ϕ(X1:m , f0 , fa ),
such as predictions, logits, and update statistics. It may not read the outcome of the cell it is about to score.


                                                              4
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 2: Population and empirical quantities. β bounds a population residual by assumption; ε is an empirical
prediction-error radius. They are not interchangeable.
  Quantity                Level                  Meaning
  f0 , f a                both                   frozen predictor and realized shadow candidate
  ∆                       population             expected risk reduction RT (f0 ) − RT (fa )
  D, µT (D)               population             disagreement region and its target probability
  M                       population             label-free mean correctness-score margin on D
  γ, β                    population             hidden calibration residual and its externally declared absolute bound
  ∆cell                   empirical              observed score difference on one predeclared evaluation unit
  b, ε
  ∆                       empirical              predicted cell benefit and residual-based interval radius
  FAu                     empirical              probability of ADAPT and a nonpositive cell benefit
  FAc                     empirical              probability of nonpositive cell benefit conditional on ADAPT
  FFu                     empirical              probability of FREEZE and a nonnegative cell benefit
  FFc                     empirical              probability of nonnegative cell benefit conditional on FREEZE
  Commitment rate         empirical              fraction of ADAPT or FREEZE decisions; not interval coverage



An evaluation cell j is a predeclared collection of records Ej on which both models are scored. For a fixed
higher-is-better score S, its measured benefit is
                                          ∆cell
                                           j    = S(fa ; Ej ) − S(f0 ; Ej ).
This is not the population benefit ∆. For accuracy it is an average of paired correctness differences. For
macro-F1 it is a difference between two cell-level scores, not an average of per-example losses. We therefore
report metric scales separately.

3.2   Actions and Their Operational Meaning

Definition 1 (Decision semantics). The gate g maps its permitted evidence and frozen calibration artifacts
to {adapt, freeze, abstain}. adapt commits fa when an interval supports positive benefit. freeze rejects
fa when an interval supports negative benefit. abstain retains f0 when neither strict direction is supported
or the assessment is unavailable.

Freeze is a supported rejection; abstention is an unresolved assessment. An operator may attach monitoring,
label acquisition, or review to an abstention. The experiments here evaluate only the frozen fallback and
uncertainty record, not those additional interventions. If evidence is missing, retaining f0 must be logged as
ABSTAIN, not as a certified FREEZE.
The observed-cell oracle chooses the model with the larger score. Regret is the policy’s score shortfall from
that oracle, averaged over the named cells with the stated weights. Always-freeze regret is max(∆cell  j , 0);
                                cell
always-adapt regret is max(−∆j , 0). KGA serves the candidate only after ADAPT. Lower regret is better.
A zero-benefit tie has zero regret for either model but supports neither strict sign.

3.3   Commitment, Interval Coverage, and Error

Let J be a random evaluation unit drawn from a predeclared deployment-unit distribution Q. The common
probability space includes fitting and calibration randomness, candidate construction, J, and the records in
EJ . Write ∆cell = ∆cell
                      J   and g = gJ . The probabilities below are prospective marginal quantities under that
joint law. When we instead summarize a finite recorded grid, we use the equal-weight empirical measure
over its cells and call the result descriptive. It does not estimate the prospective law without an additional
sampling design.
With this law and the gate fixed, we distinguish three measurements:
                                       Commit = P(g ∈ {adapt, freeze}),                                               (2)
                                                     b − ∆cell | ≤ ε),
                                        Covcell = P(|∆                                                                (3)
                                                                     cell
                                          FAu = P(g = adapt, ∆              ≤ 0).                                     (4)


                                                           5
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 3: Validity obligations for the paper’s three claim levels. Each row states its target, required premise,
supported conclusion, and excluded inference.
 Claim level           Required premise                         Supported conclusion                Not implied
 Population frontier   binary 0/1 loss, fixed augmented ev-     exact strict-sign frontier within   learning β from unlabeled
                       idence, declared residual class; rich-   that class                          data
                       ness for necessity
 Operational propo-    marginal interval coverage for a         marginal false commitment for       conditional, group, or any-
 sition                named scalar target and unit             that target                         time control
 Empirical evalua-     fixed candidates, splits, metric, and    measured cell regret, inclusion,    population    transfer   or
 tion                  action rule                              and action exposure                 prospective confirmation



Conditional false adaptation is FAc = P(∆cell ≤ 0 | g = adapt), defined only when P(g = adapt) > 0. The
operational proposition below bounds only the marginal error, and only when the stated interval coverage
premise holds. It does not bound FAc . A gate that never adapts has zero false adaptations mechanically,
so every error report includes action exposure. A false FREEZE is defined analogously by g = freeze and
∆cell ≥ 0. Its conditional rate is undefined when no FREEZE action occurs.
The population theorem uses binary labels and 0/1 loss. The empirical gate can target a predeclared scalar
score difference, including a multiclass metric, but that interface does not extend the binary theorem. The
reviewer guide in Appendix L records the multiclass identity.
Six-symbol guide. M is the observable population-side disagreement margin; γ is the hidden target
calibration residual; and β is an externally declared bound on |γ|. These quantities bracket population benefit
∆. At the empirical level, ∆cell is the measured cell benefit, ∆   b is its prediction, and ε is the calibrated
prediction-error radius. Thus (M, γ, β) supports population reasoning, whereas (∆,  b ε) brackets ∆cell ; the two
uncertainty objects are not interchangeable.

4     Population Partial-Identification Frontier
The decision depends on one unknown sign: the sign of ∆. Target labels hide that sign. M supplies the
visible direction, γ records what labels still hide, and β limits how large that hidden term may be. Together
they yield the exact three-action frontier.

4.1   Disagreement-Region Model

The two predictors can differ in risk only where they disagree. We therefore isolate that region before
introducing the score and its hidden residual.
Assumption 1 (Deployment setup). Let Y ∈ {0, 1} and use 0/1 loss. Fix measurable binary predictors f0
and fa . Their disagreement region is D = {x : f0 (x) ̸= fa (x)}; assume µT (D) > 0.
Let s : X → [0, 1] be a fixed measurable candidate-correctness score fitted from source information. The
target law has the measurable correctness kernel ηa (x) = PT (fa (X) = Y | X = x). Conditional on D, define
                                                M = E[s(X) | D] − 21 ,
                                                                                                                             (5)
                                                 γ = E[ηa (X) − s(X) | D].
The class radius β ≥ 0 is supplied externally. It defines Cβ = {PT : |γ(PT )| ≤ β}. Because s ∈ [0, 1], the
feasible margin is M ∈ [− 12 , 12 ]. The identities below do not assume that s is source-calibrated.
Remark 1 (Residual identity). By definition, M + γ = E[ηa (X) | D] − 12 . This is an algebraic decomposition,
not evidence that calibration transfers. We call γ the target disagreement-conditional calibration residual;
conditioning can make it nonzero even without distribution shift. The reviewer guide in Appendix L gives
the full counterexample and calibration qualification.
Definition 2 (Risk alignment). Evidence is risk-aligned when evidence-identical laws cannot have opposite
nonzero benefit signs. This is weaker than uniform strict-sign identification: a fibre may still contain zero
and positive benefit. We use the augmented evidence Ze = (Z, M ).


                                                                6
Under review as submission to TMLR




Definition 3 (Strict directional soundness). At a fixed augmented-evidence law, adapt is sound when
∆(P ) > 0 for every compatible P ∈ Cβ , and freeze is sound when ∆(P ) < 0 throughout the fibre. A
pointwise maximal rule commits exactly when one strict action is sound and abstains otherwise; ∆ = 0
supports neither strict claim.

4.2   Label-Kernel Freedom on the Disagreement Region

The central obstacle is now visible. Labels can change on D while the input distribution and all model
outputs stay fixed. The next lemma isolates that freedom.
Lemma 1 (Label-kernel freedom on disagreement). Fix (µT , PS , f0 , fa , s), and therefore fix D and M . Also
fix the conditional label law outside D. For every measurable η : D → [0, 1], there is a target law with input
marginal µT and P(fa (X) = Y | X = x) = η(x) on D. Across these laws, every label-free observable formed
from the input batch, fixed models, and model outputs has the same distribution. Meanwhile,

                                         γ = E[η(X) | D] − 12 − M.

Proof. On D, one binary predictor outputs 0 and the other outputs 1. Assign conditional probability η(x)
to Y = fa (x) and 1 − η(x) to Y = f0 (x). Retain the fixed label kernel outside D. This construction
changes neither the input marginal nor any model output. It therefore preserves every label-free evidence law.
Equation (5) gives the displayed expression for γ.

Consequently, every statistic formed from target inputs and fixed model outputs remains unchanged, although
the models’ relative correctness can change.

4.3   Benefit Reduction and Matched-Evidence Impossibility

The first result connects the decision target to the three population symbols. Because the models agree off D
and binary correctness is complementary on D, benefit depends only on M + γ.
Lemma 2 (Disagreement-region reduction). Under Assumption 1, with ā := PT (fa =Y | D),

                                   ∆ = 2 µT (D) ā − 21 ,
                                                       

                                    sign ∆ = sign(ā − 12 ) = sign(M + γ).

The identity sign ∆ = sign(M + γ) holds for every target law; it does not assume |γ| ≤ β.

Proof. Outside D, the two predictors agree and incur the same 0/1 loss. On D, exactly one is correct. The
adapted and frozen accuracies conditional on D are therefore ā and 1 − ā. Hence ∆ = 2µT (D)(ā − 12 ). The
definitions of M and γ give
                                                      
                                M + γ = EµT |D [s] − 12 + EµT |D [ηa − s]
                                         = EµT |D [ηa ] − 12 = ā − 21 .

Because µT (D) > 0, the three quantities have the same sign.

The reduction tells us which hidden quantity controls the sign. The harder question is identification. Can two
target worlds agree on every permitted observation while assigning opposite signs to ∆? Inside the declared
band, the answer is yes.
Theorem 1 (Interior matched-evidence impossibility). Fix β > 0. For any feasible margin M ∈ [− 12 , 21 ] with
|M | < β, there exist PT+ , PT− ∈ Cβ with the following properties:
                                                            e | P − ),
                                       Law(Ze | PT+ ) = Law(Z    T
                                          M (PT+ ) = M (PT− ) = M,
                                         sign ∆+ = − sign ∆− ̸= 0,


                                                        7
Under review as submission to TMLR




where Ze = (Z, M ). If β = 0, then C0 forces γ = 0 and sign ∆ = sign M ; matched-evidence ambiguity therefore
requires β > 0.

Proof. Choose 0 < δ < min{β − |M |, 12 }. For θ ∈ {+1, −1}, apply Lemma 1 with the constant correctness
kernel
                                        ηθ (x) = 12 + θδ,   x ∈ D,
and use the same fixed label kernel outside D. Denote the resulting target law by PTθ . The input marginal,
predictors, score, and source law are fixed, so M is the same under PT+ and PT− . Lemma 1 also gives the
same law of Z in the two worlds. Consequently, Law(Z  e | P + ) = Law(Ze | P − ) for Ze = (Z, M ).
                                                           T                T

It remains to verify class membership and the benefit signs. Under PTθ , āθ = 12 + θδ and

                                     γθ = θδ − M,       |γθ | ≤ δ + |M | < β.

Thus both laws belong to Cβ . Lemma 2 yields ∆θ = 2µT (D)θδ. The two benefits are nonzero and have
opposite signs.

The evidence laws coincide exactly—their total-variation distance is zero—so this is exact non-identifiability,
not a rate-dependent testing bound. Randomization cannot resolve two worlds that induce exactly the same
evidence law. Controlling both directional errors therefore requires abstention.
Corollary 1 (Matched-evidence abstention lower bound). Fix α ∈ (0, 12 ) and the shared evidence law from
Theorem 1. Let g be any possibly randomized label-free rule. If, in every admissible world,

                                           P[g = adapt, ∆ ≤ 0] ≤ α,
                                          P[g = freeze, ∆ ≥ 0] ≤ α,

then P[g = abstain] ≥ 1 − 2α.

Proof. The rule has the same action probabilities in both worlds. Its ADAPT probability is at most α in the
negative world. Its FREEZE probability is at most α in the positive world. The three action probabilities
sum to one.

4.4   Boundary Case

Inside the band, both strict signs may be feasible. At the boundary, zero benefit is feasible. These constructions
differ, but both prevent a uniform strict direction.
Proposition 1 (Boundary case and closed-band abstention). Fix α ∈ (0, 12 ). Under Definition 3, abstention
is the pointwise maximal sound action throughout |M | ≤ β. Any label-free rule that controls both marginal
directional errors at level α must abstain there with probability at least 1 − 2α. Opposite nonzero benefit signs
are asserted only when |M | < β.

Proof. For |M | < β, apply Theorem 1 and Corollary 1.
Now suppose |M | = β > 0. The declared class contains a zero-benefit world with γ = −M and a strict-benefit
world with γ = 0. These worlds have the same augmented-evidence law. In the zero-benefit world, both
directional error events occur whenever the rule commits. Dual error control therefore gives P[adapt] ≤ α
and P[freeze] ≤ α. It follows that P[abstain] ≥ 1 − 2α, and neither strict action is uniformly sound.
Finally, if M = β = 0, then C0 forces γ = 0 and ∆ ≡ 0. The same conclusion follows directly.

This convention is stricter than task regret. When ∆ = 0, adapt and freeze are risk-equivalent, but neither
certifies a strict sign.


                                                        8
Under review as submission to TMLR




4.5     Exact Strict-Commitment Frontier

We can now answer the population question completely. The theorem separates four jobs: reduction,
sufficiency outside the band, necessity inside the band, and maximality of the resulting rule.

Theorem 2 (Exact strict-commitment frontier). Under Assumption 1, fix (µT , PS , f0 , fa , s) and let β ≥ 0.
Necessity and maximality hold for Cβ , or for a subclass closed under the constructions in Theorem 1 and
Proposition 1; otherwise only sufficiency follows without an additional richness assumption.


       (i) Reduction. For every PT , sign ∆ = sign(M + γ) (Lemma 2).



      (ii) Sufficiency. If |M | > β and PT ∈ Cβ , then sign ∆ = sign M .



      (iii) Necessity. If |M | < β, two laws in Cβ have the same augmented-evidence law and opposite nonzero
            benefit signs. If |M | = β > 0, the admissible residual γ = − sign(M )β gives ∆ = 0. If M = β = 0,
            then ∆ ≡ 0 throughout C0 . Thus |M | ≤ β supports no uniform strict direction.



      (iv) Strict-commitment iff. At the fixed augmented-evidence law, a strict action is uniformly direction-
           ally sound if and only if |M | > β. On the closed band, abstention is the pointwise maximal sound
           action in the sense of Definition 3.


The population rule M > β ⇒ adapt, M < −β ⇒ freeze, |M | ≤ β ⇒ abstain is the pointwise maximal
sound rule on Cβ .




Proof. Part (i) is Lemma 2. For (ii), suppose M > β and |γ| ≤ β. Then M + γ > 0, so Lemma 2 gives ∆ > 0.
The negative case is symmetric.
For (iii), Theorem 1 supplies opposite nonzero signs when |M | < β. At |M | = β > 0, the boundary law with
γ = − sign(M )β has zero benefit. When M = β = 0, every law in C0 has zero benefit. These cases preclude a
uniform strict direction throughout the closed band.
Part (iv) combines (ii), (iii), and Proposition 1. Sufficiency gives the unique sound strict direction outside
the band. The impossibility and boundary results rule out both strict directions on the band.




Outside the band, the residual cannot reverse M ; on the band, the same evidence admits a failed strict claim,
so abstention is part of the identified answer. Let d = µT (D) > 0. The full class identifies


                                        ∆(Cβ ) = 2d max{− 21 , M − β},
                                                   

                                                     min{ 12 , M + β} .
                                                                     



The bracket equals [− 12 , 12 ] ∩ [M − β, M + β], and constant correctness kernels attain every point. A strict
direction exists exactly when this interval excludes zero.


                                                       9
Under review as submission to TMLR




Figure 2: Population strict-commitment frontier for a fixed binary model pair under 0/1 loss. ADAPT is
uniformly supported when M > β, FREEZE when M < −β, and neither strict direction is supported on
|M | ≤ β. This population result is not KGA’s numerical cell-level rule.

                               Region         Meaning                          Action
                               M >β           strictly positive benefit        adapt
                               M < −β         strictly negative benefit        freeze
                               |M | < β       both strict signs are feasible   abstain
                               |M | = β > 0   zero benefit is feasible         abstain
                               M =β=0         benefit is identically zero      abstain


4.6   Interpretation and Limits of the Frontier

The theorem is exact only for the declared class. Choosing β = 0 assumes a zero target disagreement-
conditional residual. It is not a conservative default. Without a credible upper bound on |γ|, the frontier
cannot support a robust strict action. More unlabeled samples do not close this gap because the missing
information lies in the target label kernel.
Empirical abstention does not prove structural unknowability. A finite-sample interval may be wide because
calibration data are scarce, prediction is poor, or transfer fails. This distinction leads to the next question:
can the required population residual bound be learned from the same label-free evidence?

5     What Label-Free Evidence Cannot Learn
The population frontier becomes usable only after β has been declared. Can the same label-free evidence
learn a smaller valid budget? An audit must cover every residual value left unresolved on its evidence fibre.

5.1   Audit Setup and Evidence Fibres

Let W collect everything a deployment-time audit may read: the unlabeled target batch, fixed models, score
function, and derived label-free statistics. It may also contain a source or calibration sample whose law does
not depend on the target label kernel. A randomized audit returns βb = g(W, U ) ≥ 0, where U is independent
of W .
For a declared class C and an observable-law value z, define the evidence fibre
                                        C(z) = {P ∈ C : LawP (W ) = z}
and its unresolved residual radius
                                              Γz (C) = sup |γ(P )|.                                         (6)
                                                        P ∈C(z)


                                                         10
Under review as submission to TMLR




The fibre contains target laws that the audit cannot distinguish. Its radius is the smallest uniform bound on
|γ| that this observable law can support.

5.2   Exact Fibre-Wise Audit Floor

The answer is a floor, not an estimator. Any audit that is valid throughout one evidence fibre must cover the
largest residual that remains possible in that fibre.
Theorem 3 (Exact label-free audit floor). Fix a nonempty fibre C(z) and δ ∈ [0, 1). Let Pz denote the
common law of (W, U ) on this fibre. Suppose βb satisfies PP (|γ(P )| ≤ b
                                                                        β) ≥ 1 − δ for every P ∈ C(z). Then
                                                        
                                         Pz βb ≥ Γz (C) ≥ 1 − δ.

The constant audit βb ≡ Γz (C) is valid with δ = 0. Consequently, on the displayed high-probability event, an
audited frontier can commit only where the frontier with radius Γz (C) already commits.

Proof. Every P in the fibre induces the same law for W and therefore for β.   b Choose Pn ∈ C(z) so that
|γ(Pn )| ↑ Γz (C). Under the common law, each event {βb ≥ |γ(Pn )|} has probability at least 1 − δ. These
events decrease to {βb ≥ Γz (C)}, so continuity from above proves the bound. The constant audit is valid by
the definition of the supremum. Finally, βb ≥ Γz and |M | > βb imply |M | > Γz .

The theorem does not prohibit useful budgets. An audit using the same observable law must cover every
residual left possible on that fibre. A smaller bound requires labels or structure that genuinely refines the
compatible set; Γz (C) is an oracle fibre benchmark, not a general finite-batch estimator.

Declared budget and abstention radius. For the full declared class Cβ = {P : |γ(P )| ≤ β} with
0 ≤ β ≤ 12 , the label-kernel construction in Lemma 1 gives

                                                 Γz (Cβ ) = β.                                               (7)

Thus the least valid fibre-wide residual bound equals the population abstention radius, β. This connection
does not turn the declared β into an estimate.

When calibration labels do not shrink the target fibre. A labeled calibration domain does not
reduce the target fibre unless the declared class links its label kernel to deployment. Lemma 1 can otherwise
vary deployment labels while leaving the calibration sample unchanged. Labels therefore help through
representativeness or structural coupling, not merely through their existence.

What additional structure can buy. Extra information can shrink the fibre, but it changes the problem.
The available routes are representative deployment labels, exchangeable historical deployment episodes, a
structural cross-domain coupling, or a domain-specific physical bound. Each gain comes from labels or
assumptions, not the current unlabeled batch.

5.3   Implications for KGA

KGA does not estimate M , γ, or β, and does not apply |M | > β numerically. It predicts ∆cell and uses an
empirical radius ε. Transferring cell-level coverage to population benefit requires an additional sampling-error
argument that the reported experiments do not provide. The next section therefore changes the question
from population identification to deployment-time prediction.

6     KGA: An Empirical Benefit-Interval Gate

For the current evaluation unit, can KGA support which side of zero the benefit lies on? It predicts cell
benefit from label-free evidence and attaches a residual-calibrated radius.


                                                      11
Under review as submission to TMLR




6.1   Shared Decision Logic, Different Targets

         Scope of KGA. KGA predicts measured evaluation-cell benefit ∆cell , not population benefit ∆.
         Its radius ε describes empirical prediction error under a named calibration protocol. It neither
         estimates the population residual bound β nor establishes population-risk coverage.


Both layers commit only when their respective uncertainty set supports one strict sign, but they use different
targets:
                                 ∆ = 2µT (D)(M + γ),
                                                                                                           (8)
                              ∆cell = S(fa ; E) − S(f0 ; E),    b = hθ (Z).
                                                                ∆

Development cells fit hθ , and disjoint residual-calibration cells supply residuals. A scored cell contributes Z,
but not its outcome. The empirical coverage premise is

                                             b − ∆cell | ≤ ε) ≥ 1 − α.
                                          P(|∆                                                               (9)

Proposition 2 applies only when this premise is justified.

6.2   The Coverage-to-Action Proposition

Proposition 2 (Coverage-to-action implication). Fix the scalar benefit target and its evaluation unit before
calibration. Let B and Bb be finite real random variables, and let ε ∈ [0, ∞] be a measurable random radius
on a common probability space containing all calibration, benefit-model fitting, candidate-construction, and
evaluation-unit randomness. The prediction B  b and radius ε must be available without reading the new unit’s
evaluation labels. For α ∈ (0, 1), suppose the interval satisfies marginal coverage
                                                      
                                          P |B
                                             b − B| ≤ ε ≥ 1 − α.

Define
                                             
                                                             b − ε > 0,
                                                             B
                                             adapt
                                             
                                          g = freeze         B
                                                             b + ε < 0,
                                             
                                                             otherwise.
                                             
                                               abstain

Then, marginally over that common probability space,
                                                            
                                           P g = adapt, B ≤ 0 ≤ α,
                                                            
                                          P g = freeze, B ≥ 0 ≤ α.


Proof. On the event {|Bb − B| ≤ ε}, the condition Bb − ε > 0 implies B > 0, so a false adapt requires the
complement of this event, which has probability at most α. The freeze case is symmetric.


For the empirical panels, B = ∆cell and B       ∆. A population-risk application instead sets B = ∆ and
                                            b = b
requires coverage for that quantity; cell-outcome coverage alone does not provide it.
Remark 2 (Scope of the implication). Proposition 2 controls marginal error for the declared target. It does
not control error conditional on commitment, group-specific coverage, candidate-selection multiplicity, or
repeated-time behavior. The coverage premise needs separate justification. When it is unsupported, a
declared fallback may retain f0 and record abstain, but that response does not prove f0 safe or optimal and
is not a certified freeze decision. Population sign claims also require their own risk-alignment argument.

Applying the proposition to population benefit requires an additional bound b on |∆cell − ∆|. Appendix A
gives the resulting ε + b radius. No such sampling-error bound is established for the reported panels.


                                                       12
Under review as submission to TMLR




Algorithm 1 KGA decision for one proposed candidate
Require: Frozen f0 , adapter A, unlabeled X, frozen hθ and calibration artifacts
 1: Create fa ← A(f0 , X) in isolated shadow state
 2: Extract Z = ϕ(X, f0 , fa ) and validate the assessment inputs
 3: if the assessment is unavailable then
 4:     retain f0 , log the reason, and return abstain
 5: end if
 6: Obtain ε from the calibrated residual rule in Eq. (10)
    b ← hθ (Z)
 7: ∆
 8: L ← b ∆ − ε; U ← ∆   b +ε
 9: if L > 0 then
10:     commit fa and return adapt
11: else if U < 0 then
12:     discard fa and return freeze
13: else
14:     retain f0 , log uncertainty, and return abstain
15: end if



6.3   Evidence, Calibration, and the Action Rule

Each candidate-specific model uses label-free summaries of confidence, class balance, model disagreement,
distribution shift, and update magnitude. Natural tracks retain protocol-specific models and schemas. The
evidence inventory in Appendix I records their exact specifications.
                      b i − ∆cell |, ordered as r(1) ≤ · · · ≤ r(n) , the order-statistic rule is
Given residuals ri = |∆      i

                                                                     (
                                                                         r(k) ,   k ≤ n,
                                  k = ⌈(n + 1)(1 − α)⌉ ,        ε=                                           (10)
                                                                         +∞,      k > n.

The rank rule has split-conformal coverage when calibration and next-unit scores are jointly exchangeable
under the full fitting and candidate-construction protocol (Tibshirani et al., 2019; Barber et al., 2023); here n
counts cells, not images.
A deterministic five-fold cross-fit is keyed by stable cell IDs. For each score fold, its complement is divided
into disjoint estimator-fit and residual-calibration subsets. Fit outcomes determine the predictor, and the
exact-rank rule on calibration residuals determines the radius. No scored outcome can affect its own prediction,
radius, or action; the whole-pipeline invariance test verifies this property. This separation blocks direct
outcome flow but does not create independent environments or establish exchangeability. Natural tracks use
separate partitions only where their archived protocols record them.
For radius 0.01, predictions 0.04, −0.04, and 0.005 produce adapt, freeze, and abstain, respectively. These
values illustrate the rule; they are not experimental results.
Runtime includes shadow adaptation, two-model inference, evidence extraction, and storage; comparable
end-to-end latency measurements are unavailable.


7     Primary Experimental Protocols

7.1   Two Primary Questions and the Evidence Hierarchy

The CIFAR-10-C diagnostic asks whether KGA distinguishes helpful from harmful updates on an opened
constructed grid. CCT-20 asks whether a frozen gate avoids measured candidate harm across camera locations.
The first exercises directional branches retrospectively; the second evaluates governed retention and may pass
without ADAPT exposure.


                                                           13
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 4: Evidence status and admissible claim. “Primary” means central to the paper, not prospectively
confirmatory; unfavorable and incomplete studies remain in scope.
  Evidence             Design and status                                       Question it can answer
  CIFAR-10-C           opened, dependent, constructed; cell-outcome-disjoint   retrospective candidate-specific routing
                       cross-fit
  CCT-20               cell-outcome-unopened, internally sealed execution;     conservative retention under the locked
                       aggregate target metadata previously inspected          endpoint
  So2Sat-LCZ42         development stop before target access                   candidate failed eligibility
  Auxiliary replays    opened or one-sided diagnostics                         transfer limits and supporting behavior
  Invalid or partial   PACS partial; iWildCam metric invalid; historical       audit history only
  records              ports superseded; Office-Home serialization invalid




The opened, dependent, constructed CIFAR-10-C diagnostic (Hendrycks and Dietterich, 2019) uses six
corruption families at severities 1 and 5. It crosses three batch sizes (200, 16, and 8), three compositions
(IID, imbalanced, and single-class), two update schedules (10 steps at 10−3 and 50 at 2.5 × 10−3 ), and two
repeats: 432 cells per RNG seed and 2,160 per candidate over seeds 0–4.
Tent, EATA, and SAR are local ports applied to one ResNet-18 checkpoint; the five seeds repeat streams and
adapter randomness, not checkpoint training. Point estimates weight cells equally; family sensitivity first
averages within each family and then weights the six means equally.
The recorded candidates are local, protocol-matched composite operating points rather than untouched
reproductions of published defaults. They combine evaluation-batch BatchNorm statistics with normalization-
affine updates; Appendix D records the contract and unexecuted BatchNorm-only control.
The three-way cross-fit removes each scored fold’s outcomes from fitting and residual calibration, but does not
make the shared checkpoint, corpus, or cells independent. This is a retrospective diagnostic, not prospective
confirmation or an untouched deployment trial.


7.2   CCT-20 Design and Locked Utility-Preservation Endpoint

The CCT-20 study (Beery et al., 2018) crosses 5 independent checkpoints with 9 target locations, giving
45 cells and 6950/16325 probe/evaluation images (23275 total). Set-membership top-1 accuracy credits any
archived category, not an official single-label target. Official Tent makes one non-episodic Adam update per
batch at 10−3 ; pre-update logits score it, state carries within a cell, and resets between cells.
Individual outcomes remained unopened until one-shot scoring, but aggregate target-label metadata had
previously been inspected; CCT-20 was therefore cell-outcome-unopened and internally sealed, not globally
label-unopened or publicly preregistered. Ridge fitting used 10 rows from two camera locations and calibration
used 45 rows across nine others; transfer to target locations is assumed.
For fixed policy b, Gb is mean baseline regret minus mean KGA regret. The limited, predeclared utility check
uses nominal pointwise 95% intervals and passes when their lower endpoints satisfy

                                           Ladapt > 0,     Lfreeze > −0.005.                                              (11)

The second threshold is frozen-policy noninferiority; this check can pass when KGA always serves f0 and is
not a population guarantee.
The separate strong-success rule requires complete data for all 45 cells, nominal 97.5% Bonferroni intervals
above zero against both fixed policies, both exact nine-location tests surviving Holm at 0.05, ADAPT and
FREEZE rates at least 0.10, and total commitment at least 0.30. It therefore requires interval-supported
improvement over both fixed policies; any failure precludes strong success.
The CCT utility table 6 uses pointwise 95% intervals; the separate strong-success audit 18 uses 97.5%
Bonferroni intervals. They are not alternate versions of the same interval.


                                                          14
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 5: Opened, dependent CIFAR-10-C diagnostic over 2,160 equally weighted cells per candidate. Lower
regret is better. A/F/U gives action exposure; directional errors use the corresponding action denominator.
Tent’s all-cell errors are 2/2,160 for false ADAPT and 1/2,160 for false FREEZE. All cells reuse one checkpoint,
so this is retrospective rather than independent environment validation. Canonical panel SHA-256: 35d4c16
5843de1ece3cb35ffb4ac50dbfcbfa33b646754e2b6d133fbdfa78c6e.
Candidate        n     KGA      Adapt      Freeze       A/F/U         False A/A      False F/F     Commitment
Tent          2160    0.0019    0.0080    0.1239     1091/337/732         2/1091         1/337            0.6611
EATA          2160    0.0016    0.0033    0.1313     1207/105/848         0/1207         0/105            0.6074
SAR           2160    0.0018    0.0003    0.1405      1414/0/746          0/1414             –            0.6546



Scoring and inference. Actions are fixed before outcomes are joined, but candidate TTA is transductive
because it reads unlabeled evaluation inputs. CIFAR sensitivity resamples the six corruption-family means
conditional on the archived checkpoint. CCT-20 uses a paired product bootstrap over checkpoint rows and
location columns; its separate exact sign-flip reference calculation uses nine location means and requires a
stronger joint sign-symmetry condition than exchangeability alone. All reported levels are nominal. The
inference audit in Appendix F gives the metrics, sign convention, full assumptions, and retrospective status
(Hemerik and Goeman, 2018).


8     Primary Results

8.1   CIFAR-10-C: Directional Actions and Candidate-Specific Utility

Table 5 first exposes the ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN record under one current rule. Tent makes two false
ADAPT decisions and one false FREEZE; EATA makes neither; SAR makes no FREEZE decision, so that
error direction is unexercised. These counts require their action and all-cell denominators below. Utility is a
secondary measured consequence: Tent and EATA have lower point regret than both fixed policies, whereas
always-adapt has lower regret than KGA for SAR. The panel therefore supports only candidate-specific,
retrospective action and utility results.
Tent regret is 0.0019, compared with 0.0080 for always-adapt and 0.1239 for always-freeze. EATA’s values are
0.0016, 0.0033, and 0.1313. Their ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN counts are 1,091/337/732 and 1,207/105/848,
respectively. Tent makes two false ADAPT decisions; EATA makes none. SAR makes 1,414/0/746 decisions.
Its KGA regret is 0.0018, compared with 0.0003 for always-adapt and 0.1405 for always-freeze. Abstention
can prevent harmful updates while still forgoing helpful ones.
The nominal six-family intervals distinguish Tent from EATA. Gaps are baseline regret minus KGA regret, so
positive values favor KGA. Tent’s gap versus always-adapt is 0.0061, with nominal family-bootstrap interval
[0.0021, 0.0095]; its interval versus always-freeze is also strictly positive. EATA’s interval versus always-adapt
crosses zero, [−0.0013, 0.0044], although its interval versus always-freeze is positive. Tent therefore has the
favorable nominal two-baseline pattern; EATA does not.
The retrospective reference tests do not make either pattern confirmatory. Across the six prospectively named
candidate-by-baseline contrasts, Tent’s Holm values are 0.140625 against always-adapt and 0.09375 against
always-freeze. EATA’s are 0.3125 and 0.09375, respectively. The replay, family unit, tests, and multiplicity
analysis were selected after the grid was open, and all six families share one checkpoint. Table 14 reports
every interval and reference value. Nominal interval exclusion and retrospective Holm adjustment answer
different questions; neither establishes prospective coverage.

8.2   Retrospective Interval Diagnostics

Retrospective inclusion is 1,976/2,160 for Tent, 1,950/2,160 for EATA, and 1,949/2,160 for SAR. These values
describe opened cross-fit cells; they are not independent validation of coverage on new environments. The
inference appendix F reports interval widths and family-level diagnostics. Tent’s two false ADAPT actions


                                                       15
Under review as submission to TMLR




correspond to marginal error 2/2160 and conditional error 2/1091. It also makes one false FREEZE among
337 FREEZE decisions. EATA makes no false ADAPT and no false FREEZE. SAR makes no false ADAPT
and no FREEZE decisions, so its conditional false-freeze rate is undefined. Exposure and denominators are
essential: a zero count alone is not evidence of safety.


8.3   CCT-20: Conservative Retention, Not Selective Routing

All 45 checkpoint–location cells completed. KGA made 0/44/1 ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN decisions. All
45 served predictions used the frozen model, but the sole helpful cell received FREEZE, yielding one false
FREEZE among 44 FREEZE actions (1/45 overall). Tent helped in 1 cell, tied in 0, and harmed in 44; 43
harmful cells received FREEZE, and the remaining harmful cell received ABSTAIN. The study therefore
passes only the locked utility-preservation endpoint and does not demonstrate selective routing or strong
success.


Table 6: CCT-20 action record and locked utility-preservation endpoint over 45 checkpoint–location cells.
Positive policy contrasts favor KGA. The 95% intervals belong to the utility endpoint; Appendix G reports
the separate 97.5% Bonferroni strong-success audit.
                    Item               Result
                    Actions            0 ADAPT / 44 FREEZE / 1 ABSTAIN
                    Measured effects   1 helpful / 0 tied / 44 harmful
                    False FREEZE       1/44 conditional; 1/45 overall
                    Locked endpoint    Pass: utility preservation only
                    Strong success     Fail: no ADAPT exposure or improvement over always-freeze

                      Comparator       Mean contrast     Nominal 95% CI      Required lower bound
                      Always adapt              0.1819    [0.0937, 0.2914]   L > 0.0000
                      Always freeze             0.0000    [0.0000, 0.0000]   L > −0.0050



KGA matched always-freeze and avoided the measured degradation from always-adapt. The unchanged
locked rule therefore returns pass on the stored cells (generated flag: yes). The archived verdict token remains
SAFE UTILITY ONLY, but the supported description is utility preservation only. This is a scoped endpoint,
not a finite-sample population-safety guarantee.
The complete strong-success audit is more informative. Completeness passed. Against always-adapt, the
nominal 97.5% Bonferroni interval is [0.08501071, 0.31066374] and the Holm-adjusted location sign-flip value
is 0.00390625; both pass their locked thresholds. Against always-freeze, the contrast and interval are zero
and the Holm value is 1; neither supports strict improvement. FREEZE exposure and total commitment
exceed 0.10 and 0.30, but ADAPT exposure is zero and fails its 0.10 threshold. The strong-success criterion
therefore fails. This is all-frozen fail-closed service, not learned selective routing. The false-adapt count (0/45)
is mechanically zero because ADAPT exposure is zero.
Every development cell was harmful for Tent, so the fit saw no helpful example. Only two camera locations
supplied fitting data, and calibration-to-target transfer is unverified. The complete location ledger and
primary inference appear in the CCT-20 ledger in Appendix G.1. We infer no selective-routing success from
this result.


8.4   Development Stops and Adverse Diagnostics

So2Sat-LCZ42 (Zhu et al., 2020) screened Tent and SAR in a development-only, multi-city, multi-checkpoint
feasibility study. Tent produced both helpful and harmful development cases, but neither candidate passed
every predeclared eligibility check. The study therefore stopped before gate calibration. No gate-calibration
rows or target inputs, pixels, or labels were accessed, so there is no target natural-shift score. The gate-fit
outcomes are now open; retuning them cannot create fresh confirmation.


                                                           16
Under review as submission to TMLR




The auxiliary studies expose further limits. ImageNet-R and PACS favor always-adapt, while ImageNet-C
depends strongly on candidate and operating point. Office-Home and RxRx1 mainly retain the frozen model;
the opened Camelyon17 OOD panel adapts throughout. The auxiliary-results appendix B reports valid
diagnostic rows on separate metric scales. It also explains why iWildCam, the historical POEM/AETTA
ports, and the focused Office-Home route cannot support current headline comparisons.

ImageNet-C SAR operating point. The ImageNet-C SAR result uses a local port at learning rate
4 × 10−3 , which is 16× the published 2.5 × 10−4 setting. The port adapts the recorded BatchNorm affine
parameters, including the upper ResNet block that the official default excludes. It also combines target-batch
BatchNorm-statistics replacement with gradient updates. This is an aggressive local diagnostic, not an official
paper-default configuration. We ran no matched control at SAR’s published operating point, so the result
concerns this port and cannot be read as evidence against SAR as published.

ImageNet-R backbone pattern. KGA has higher regret than always-adapt on 8 of 10 backbones. On
efficientnet_b0, KGA improves over always-adapt but ties always-freeze at zero regret. On swin_t, it also
improves over always-adapt but ties always-freeze at 0.00473958 regret. Thus KGA has lower regret than both
fixed policies on 0 of 10 backbones. Four of the eight adapt-favoring backbones have a 0% harmful-update
base rate, so routing cannot improve on always-adapt there. This opened, descriptive pattern is consistent
with routing being most useful when harmful updates occur. It is not one deployable multi-backbone policy
or confidence-supported natural-shift evidence.

9     Limitations and Broader Impact

The measured action record does not demonstrate universal safety. The theory is exact relative to its declared
class, whereas the empirical intervals are protocol-scoped and require separate coverage assumptions. The
recorded experiments measure directional errors and utility only for the fixed candidates, metrics, and
evaluation units studied. Neither layer establishes unconditional deployment safety.

9.1   Formal Assumptions and Empirical Calibration Scope

The population frontier is exact within its declared rich binary class. A credible β must come from domain
knowledge, target labels, or a stated transfer assumption. A narrower class may permit stronger decisions.
An unsupported bound cannot justify a strict population claim. The substantive object is the class-dependent
feasible set, not the inequality by itself.

The development-based surrogate failed. We tested estimating β from source-like development cells
rather than declaring it. The estimate is 1.4–50× too small on real evaluation cells (24–73% of cells fall
outside the declared class Cβ ; commit error 0.4–16.6%), and returns zero commitments on all 405 ImageNet-C
cells in 5 of 10 configurations. We therefore withdraw the estimation route and declare β from domain
knowledge instead.
This test used an operational development proxy; it could not observe the theorem’s target disagreement-
conditional residual directly. The repository retains the reported result text but not the named raw beta-sweep
artifact. The negative result is therefore historically documented but not presently regenerable from the
canonical bundle. KGA neither estimates nor numerically uses β.
For KGA, empirical interval coverage needs separate support at the intended decision unit. A larger ε
reduces commitment but may increase regret when f0 is worse. A smaller ε increases exposure and the cost
of calibration failure. Changing the adapter, checkpoint, feature schema, or update settings changes the
prediction problem. Each change requires recalibration or a justified transfer argument.

Repeated deployment needs a separate guarantee. A predeclared policy does not by itself create
exchangeability or time-uniform safety. Reusing calibration data, replacing the frozen baseline after an
accepted update, or selecting later candidates from earlier outcomes changes the joint process. Adaptive
conformal inference studies online coverage frequency with feedback (Gibbs and Candes, 2021); it does


                                                      17
Under review as submission to TMLR




not automatically give time-uniform control of KGA’s false commitments. Selection-conditional and group-
conditional guarantees require additional methods, as Section 2 explains.

9.2   Evidence Needed for Prospective Confirmation

The controlled results reuse one checkpoint, one corpus, and related corruption cells. Their cell-outcome-
disjoint split fixes a leakage defect; it does not remove dependence. The interval inclusion table is retrospective,
not an independent calibration test. The natural studies mainly evaluate retention: CCT-20 has no ADAPT
exposure, and So2Sat stops during development. Empirical abstention may reflect weak prediction, limited
data, a wide ε, or transfer failure. It does not establish population non-identifiability.
The search history is substantial. One superseded census reported 1,387 determinations and 326 positives
(23.5%). A broader archived scan reported 1,427 determinations and 345 positives (24.2%). Neither census
froze a reproducible family definition, file list, and repository state. They are overlapping historical search
summaries, not two predeclared families and not the multiplicity family for the current panel. The controlled
results remain explicitly post hoc.
Table 7 states the four missing tests and the claim each would inform. They cannot be supplied by reclassifying
the existing panel.


Table 7: Evidence needed for prospective confirmation. Each row names a missing test rather than
reinterpreting a completed diagnostic.
  Missing test                         Question it would answer                         Present boundary
  Synchronized official comparators    Does the current policy add value beyond offi-   Only historical local-port diagnos-
                                       cial TTA/ALine, AETTA, POEM, and simple          tics exist.
                                       benefit gates?
  New natural shift with helpful and   Can a frozen policy exercise nonzero ADAPT       Current natural tracks are one-sided,
  harmful candidates                   and FREEZE exposure prospectively?               retention-heavy, or stopped.
  Untouched-group coverage evalua-     Do interval inclusion and directional errors     No held-out group-coverage result is
  tion                                 transfer beyond opened cross-fit cells?          available.
  Independent checkpoints and envi-    Does the inference extend beyond one check-      The primary CIFAR grid reuses one
  ronments                             point and related constructed conditions?        checkpoint and corpus.



The confirmation protocol in Appendix K specifies a future protocol.

9.3   Operational Risks and Deployment Scope

Rejecting an update can prevent adaptation harm. A frozen fallback can prevent adaptation-induced harm
while still preserving a model that is inaccurate, biased, or unsuitable for the application. Treating abstention
as a safety certificate would be especially risky. A deployment should retain the assessment reason and route
unresolved cases to domain-appropriate review or evidence acquisition. Our experiments do not validate
clinical, safety-critical, or autonomous operation. We claim neither a held-out physical camera deployment
nor a common end-to-end latency result.
The maintained software distinguishes an unavailable assessment from a supported negative interval. Its tests
and proof artifacts document a scoped validity, commitment-control, and rollback layer. They do not certify
every data pipeline or production system. The appendices record reproduction instructions, formal scope,
excluded historical extensions, and release checks.


10    Conclusion

K-Bound separates missing target-label information from estimable uncertainty. For a fixed binary model
pair under 0/1 loss, a declared residual class induces a feasible set of population benefits. That set supports
a strict direction exactly outside the closed band |M | ≤ β. The evidence-fibre audit theorem explains why


                                                             18
Under review as submission to TMLR




additional functions of the same label-free evidence cannot remove residual ambiguity that remains on the
fibre.
KGA addresses a different target. It predicts measured evaluation-cell benefit and uses a separately calibrated
interval to ADAPT, FREEZE, or ABSTAIN. Its empirical criterion is directional action correctness, with
exposure and false-action denominators reported separately. The utility preservation endpoint is reported
separately, not as proof of universal safety. The current CIFAR-10-C diagnostic exercises both directional
actions retrospectively, whereas CCT-20 demonstrates conservative all-frozen retention rather than selective
routing. These results support evidence-aware commitment under recorded protocols, not unconditional
safety or population transfer.
The practical lesson is simple: commit a proposed update only when the relevant target, evidence, and
assumptions support a direction; otherwise preserve the fallback and record the unresolved uncertainty.


References
D. Wang, E. Shelhamer, S. Liu, B. Olshausen, T. Darrell. Tent: Fully test-time adaptation by entropy
  minimization. ICLR, 2021.
J. Liang, D. Hu, J. Feng. Do we really need to access the source data? Source hypothesis transfer for
  unsupervised domain adaptation. ICML, 2020.
Y. Sun, X. Wang, Z. Liu, J. Miller, A. Efros, M. Hardt. Test-time training with self-supervision for
  generalization under distribution shifts. ICML, 2020.
S. Niu, J. Wu, Y. Zhang, Y. Chen, S. Zheng, P. Zhao, M. Tan. Efficient test-time model adaptation without
   forgetting. ICML, 2022.
S. Niu, J. Wu, Y. Zhang, Z. Wen, Y. Chen, P. Zhao, M. Tan. Towards stable test-time adaptation in dynamic
  wild world. ICLR, 2023.
Q. Wang, O. Fink, L. Van Gool, D. Dai. Continual test-time domain adaptation. CVPR, 2022.
M. Zhang, S. Levine, C. Finn. MEMO: Test time robustness via adaptation and augmentation. NeurIPS,
 2022.
M. Schirmer, M. Jazbec, C. A. Naesseth, E. Nalisnick. Monitoring risks in test-time adaptation. NeurIPS,
 2025. arXiv:2507.08721.
O. C. Mutlu, M. Honarmand, P. Azizian, S. Surabhi, D. P. Wall. Topology-guided test-time adaptation via
  persistent homology: From affective behavior analysis to autonomous driving. CVPR Workshops, pages
  5331–5340, 2026.
M. Chen, B. Zhang, Z. Han, W. Jiang, Y. Wang, S. Feng, Y. Du, B. Bao. Test-time selective adaptation
 for uni-modal distribution shift in multi-modal data. Proceedings of the 42nd International Conference on
 Machine Learning, PMLR 267:9711–9727, 2025. https://proceedings.mlr.press/v267/chen25ch.html.
S. Sahoo, M. ElAraby, J. Ngnawe, Y. B. Pequignot, F. Precioso, C. Gagné. A layer selection approach to test
   time adaptation. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 39(19):20237–20245, 2025.
   doi:10.1609/aaai.v39i19.34229.
A. H. Ariq. MMD-balls as credal sets: A PAC-Bayesian framework for epistemic uncertainty in test-time
  adaptation. arXiv:2605.21783, 2026.
A. Podkopaev, A. Ramdas. Tracking the risk of a deployed model and detecting harmful distribution shifts.
  ICLR, 2022. arXiv:2110.06177.
Y. Bar, S. Shaer, Y. Romano. Protected test-time adaptation via online entropy matching: A betting approach.
  NeurIPS, 2024. arXiv:2408.07511.
S. Garg, S. Balakrishnan, Z. Lipton, B. Neyshabur, H. Sedghi. Leveraging unlabeled data to predict out-of-
  distribution performance. ICLR, 2022. arXiv:2201.04234.


                                                      19
Under review as submission to TMLR




J. Miller, R. Taori, A. Raghunathan, S. Sagawa, P. W. Koh, V. Shankar, P. Liang, Y. Carmon, L. Schmidt.
   Accuracy on the line: On the strong correlation between out-of-distribution and in-distribution generalization.
  ICML, 2021. arXiv:2107.04649.
C. Baek, Y. Jiang, A. Raghunathan, J. Z. Kolter. Agreement-on-the-line: Predicting the performance of
  neural networks under distribution shift. NeurIPS, 2022. arXiv:2206.13089.
T. Lee, S. Chottananurak, T. Gong, S.-J. Lee. AETTA: Label-free accuracy estimation for test-time adaptation.
  CVPR, 2024. arXiv:2404.01351.
J. Steinhardt, P. Liang. Unsupervised risk estimation using only conditional independence structure. NeurIPS,
   2016. arXiv:1606.05313.
S. Ben-David, J. Blitzer, K. Crammer, A. Kulesza, F. Pereira, J. Wortman Vaughan. A theory of learning
  from different domains. Machine Learning 79(1–2):151–175, 2010a.
E. Rosenfeld, S. Garg. (Almost) provable error bounds under distribution shift via disagreement discrepancy.
  NeurIPS, 2023. arXiv:2306.00312.
Y. Geifman, R. El-Yaniv. Selective classification for deep neural networks. NeurIPS, 2017.
D. Hendrycks, T. Dietterich. Benchmarking neural network robustness to common corruptions and perturba-
  tions. ICLR, 2019.
D. Hendrycks, S. Basart, N. Mu, S. Kadavath, F. Wang, E. Dorundo, R. Desai, T. Zhu, S. Parajuli, M. Guo,
  D. Song, J. Steinhardt, J. Gilmer. The many faces of robustness: A critical analysis of out-of-distribution
  generalization. ICCV, pages 8340–8349, 2021.
P. W. Koh, S. Sagawa, H. Marklund, S. M. Xie, M. Zhang, A. Balsubramani, W. Hu, M. Yasunaga, et al.
  WILDS: A benchmark of in-the-wild distribution shifts. ICML, 2021.
P. Bándi, O. Geessink, Q. Manson, M. van Dijk, M. Balkenhol, M. Hermsen, et al. From detection of individual
   metastases to classification of lymph node status at the patient level: The CAMELYON17 challenge. IEEE
  Trans. Med. Imaging 38(2):550–560, 2019.
M. Sypetkowski, M. Rezanejad, S. Saberian, O. Kraus, J. Urbanik, J. Taylor, B. Mabey, M. Victors, J.
 Yosinski, A. Rezazadeh Sereshkeh, I. Haque, B. Earnshaw. RxRx1: A dataset for evaluating experimental
 batch correction methods. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
 Recognition (CVPR) Workshops, pages 4285–4294, 2023. arXiv:2301.05768.
X. X. Zhu, J. Hu, C. Qiu, Y. Shi, J. Kang, L. Mou, H. Bagheri, M. Häberle, Y. Hua, R. Huang, L. Hughes,
  H. Li, Y. Sun, G. Zhang, S. Han, M. Schmitt, Y. Wang. So2Sat LCZ42: A benchmark data set for the
  classification of global local climate zones [Software and Data Sets]. IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing
  Magazine 8(3):76–89, 2020. doi:10.1109/MGRS.2020.2964708.
H. Venkateswara, J. Eusebio, S. Chakraborty, S. Panchanathan. Deep hashing network for unsupervised
  domain adaptation. CVPR, 2017. (Office-Home dataset release).
D. Li, Y. Yang, Y.-Z. Song, T. M. Hospedales. Deeper, broader and artier domain generalization. ICCV,
  pages 5543–5551, 2017. doi:10.1109/ICCV.2017.591.
B. Recht, R. Roelofs, L. Schmidt, V. Shankar. Do CIFAR-10 classifiers generalize to CIFAR-10? arXiv
  preprint, 2018. arXiv:1806.00451.
A. Paszke, S. Gross, F. Massa, A. Lerer, J. Bradbury, G. Chanan, T. Killeen, Z. Lin, N. Gimelshein, L.
  Antiga, et al. PyTorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. NeurIPS, 2019.
F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R.
  Weiss, V. Dubourg, et al. Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python. JMLR 12:2825–2830, 2011.
R. Xie, A. Odonnat, V. Feofanov, W. Deng, J. Zhang, B. An. MaNo: exploiting matrix norm for unsupervised
  accuracy estimation under distribution shifts. NeurIPS, 2024. arXiv:2405.18979.



                                                       20
Under review as submission to TMLR




W. Deng, Y. Suh, S. Gould, L. Zheng. Confidence and dispersity speak: characterizing prediction matrix for
 unsupervised accuracy estimation. ICML, 2023. arXiv:2302.01094.
R. J. Tibshirani, R. F. Barber, E. Candès, A. Ramdas. Conformal prediction under covariate shift. NeurIPS,
  2019. arXiv:1904.06019.
R. F. Barber, E. J. Candès, A. Ramdas, R. J. Tibshirani. Conformal prediction beyond exchangeability.
  Annals of Statistics 51(2):816–845, 2023. arXiv:2202.13415.
J. Hemerik, J. Goeman. Exact testing with random permutations. TEST 27:811–825, 2018. doi:10.1007/s11749-
   017-0571-1.
I. Gibbs, E. Candès. Adaptive conformal inference under distribution shift. NeurIPS, 2021. arXiv:2106.00170.
S. Bates, A. Angelopoulos, L. Lei, J. Malik, M. I. Jordan. Distribution-free, risk-controlling prediction sets.
  JACM 68(6), 2021. arXiv:2101.02703.
A. N. Angelopoulos, S. Bates, E. J. Candès, M. I. Jordan, L. Lei. Learn then test: calibrating predictive
  algorithms to achieve risk control. Annals of Applied Statistics, 2025. arXiv:2110.01052.
S. Sonoda, K. Kasaura, Y. Mizuno, K. Tsukamoto, N. Onda. Lean formalization of generalization error bound
   by Rademacher complexity. arXiv preprint, 2025. arXiv:2503.19605v3.
C. Gupta, A. Ramdas. Top-label calibration and multiclass-to-binary reductions. ICLR, 2022.
  arXiv:2107.08353.
Z. C. Lipton, Y.-X. Wang, A. Smola. Detecting and correcting for label shift with black box predictors. ICML,
  2018.
S. Garg, Y. Wu, S. Balakrishnan, Z. C. Lipton. A unified view of label shift estimation. NeurIPS, 2020.
C. K. Chow. On optimum recognition error and reject tradeoff. IEEE Trans. Information Theory, 16(1):41–46,
  1970.
C. Cortes, G. DeSalvo, M. Mohri. Learning with rejection. ALT, 2016.
S. Beery, G. Van Horn, and P. Perona, “Recognition in Terra Incognita,” in Proceedings of the European
  Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2018, pp. 472–489, doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-01270-0_28.
S. Ben-David, T. Lu, T. Luu, D. Pál. Impossibility theorems for domain adaptation. Proceedings of the
  Thirteenth International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, PMLR 9:129–136, 2010b.
  https://proceedings.mlr.press/v9/david10a.html.
I. Lamaakal, C. Yahyati, K. El Makkaoui, I. Ouahbi, Y. Maleh. Drift-to-Action Controllers: Budgeted
   interventions with online risk certificates. arXiv preprint, 2026. arXiv:2603.08578v1.
E. Kim, M. Sun, C. Baek, A. Raghunathan, J. Z. Kolter. Test-Time Adaptation Induces Stronger Accuracy and
  Agreement-on-the-Line. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37, 2024. doi:10.52202/079017-
  3820.
Y. Jin, Z. Ren. Confidence on the focal: conformal prediction with selection-conditional coverage.
  Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series B: Statistical Methodology, 87(4):1239–1259, 2025.
  doi:10.1093/jrsssb/qkaf016.
I. Gibbs, J. J. Cherian, E. J. Candès. Conformal prediction with conditional guarantees. Journal of the Royal
   Statistical Society Series B: Statistical Methodology, 87(4):1100–1126, 2025. doi:10.1093/jrsssb/qkaf008.
T. Christensen, H. R. Moon, F. Schorfheide. Optimal Decision Rules When Payoffs are Partially Identified. The
  Review of Economic Studies, rdag017, 2026. Advance article, corrected proof. doi:10.1093/restud/rdag017.




                                                      21
Under review as submission to TMLR




A     Conditional Bridge from Cell Coverage to Population Coverage
The interval proposition covers its declared target. The following conditional argument explains what would
be needed to change a cell-level target into a population one.

Additional condition for population transfer. For cell outcomes using the same loss as the population
risk, such as accuracy and 0/1 loss, suppose that, on the same probability space,
                                                b − ∆cell | ≤ ε) ≥ 1 − αcell ,
                                             P(|∆
                                             P(|∆cell − ∆| ≤ b) ≥ 1 − δ,
where b ≥ 0 is available without the new evaluation labels, then
                                             b − ∆| ≤ ε + b) ≥ 1 − αcell − δ.
                                          P(|∆
The triangle inequality applies on the intersection of the two coverage events, and the union bound controls
its complement; independence is not needed. A population interval-supported action would use radius ε + b
and budget αcell + δ ≤ αtarget . No such sampling-error bound is established for the reported panels, and their
gates do not apply this enlarged radius. This conditional implication therefore adds no new population-safety
claim to the empirical results.
For a nonlinear score such as macro-F1, an analogous argument must first define the population functional
and a suitable sampling-error bound. Neither follows from the binary disagreement identity. Appendix L
gives a counterexample with perfect cell-outcome coverage and negative population benefit.

B     Additional Results and Non-Promoted Studies
This section preserves evidence outside the two primary protocols. Ordinary accuracy and balanced accuracy
remain separate, and no result is pooled across datasets, candidates, or protocols. The input inventory is
bound by source-manifest SHA-256 03b1d2b1e9e5ed1cf835126f871ed83eb8497a1ac81727b3955af0d69eb8
9742. Historical, incomplete, and invalid studies retain their original status.

B.1   Accuracy-Based Diagnostic Replays

Status: retrospective diagnostic.
Table 8 collects the remaining ordinary-accuracy replays; the dataset-specific interpretations follow below.

Table 8: Appendix ordinary-accuracy diagnostics. Each row is weighted over the evaluation unit named in
the table; lower regret is better. Commitment counts ADAPT or FREEZE and is not interval coverage. The
rows are retrospective or historical, not confirmatory. Office-Home’s primary and stream-seed rows differ from
its invalid five-checkpoint audit. ImageNet-C is candidate-specific. For PACS, n = 12 denotes equal-weight
domain–seed regret units, whereas the archive contains 216 repeated action decisions.
      Protocol                   Status                     n      KGA     Adapt    Freeze     FAu    Commitment rate
      Office-Home primary        retrospective retention    35    0.0158   0.0468   0.0158   0.0000            0.3143
      Office-Home stream seeds   descriptive replication    54    0.0215   0.0458   0.0217   0.0000            0.2778
      ImageNet-C Tent            candidate-specific        135    0.0154   0.0191   0.0145   0.0222            0.0370
      ImageNet-C EATA            candidate-specific        135    0.0024   0.0001   0.0342   0.0074            0.8074
      ImageNet-C SAR             candidate-specific        135    0.0227   0.0529   0.0319   0.0000            0.2741
      PACS (aggregate)           partial diagnostic         12    0.0431   0.0176   0.0446   0.0093            0.8148
      CIFAR-10.1                 locked diagnostic          48    0.0017   0.0190   0.0017   0.0000            0.4583



B.2   Balanced-Accuracy Diagnostic Replays

Status: retrospective diagnostic on a separate metric scale.
Table 9 reports the balanced-accuracy replays on their own metric scale, with each recorded candidate and
evaluation unit kept distinct.


                                                             22
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 9: Appendix balanced-accuracy diagnostics; lower regret is better. Each row uses the evaluation-
cell weighting recorded by its protocol. The archived contracts name balanced accuracy for Camelyon17,
ImageNet-R, and RxRx1; equality with ordinary accuracy can occur only under recorded class balance.
ImageNet-R averages candidate backbones rather than one deployed gate. Camelyon17 OOD was opened, its
B–v2 rows are separate within-seed diagnostics, and the displayed RxRx1 row is model seed 0. No interval or
confirmatory claim is attached to this table.
         Protocol               Status                  n         KGA       Adapt    Freeze     FAu    Commitment rate
         ImageNet-R backbones   architecture panel     480    0.0137        0.0064   0.0325   0.0125            0.4437
         Camelyon17 OOD         opened one-sided        18    0.0000        0.0000   0.1381   0.0000            1.0000
         Camelyon17 B–v2 Tent   opened diagnostic      108    0.0446        0.0097   0.0820   0.0000            0.2500
         Camelyon17 B–v2 EATA   opened diagnostic      108    0.0260        0.0040   0.0911   0.0278            0.4722
         Camelyon17 B–v2 SAR    opened diagnostic      108    0.0289        0.0016   0.1001   0.0093            0.4815
         RxRx1 model seed 0     retention diagnostic    60    0.0000        0.2531   0.0000   0.0000            1.0000



B.3     Large-Scale Corruption: ImageNet-C

Status: retrospective candidate-specific diagnostic.
ImageNet-C is candidate-dependent. At the regenerated cross-fit authority, SAR has KGA/adapt/freeze
regrets 0.0227/0.0529/0.0319 and 28/9/98 A/F/U decisions. It has a point advantage over both fixed
policies and no false adaptation among 135 cells, but no seed-robust inferential support. Tent has regrets
0.0154/0.0191/0.0145 and 3/2/130 decisions; all three ADAPT decisions are false adaptations. EATA has
regrets 0.0024/0.0001/0.0342 and 108/1/26 decisions, including one false adaptation. These rows support
candidate-level diagnosis, not a dataset-wide success label. The main paper discloses the nonstandard SAR
operating point and the absence of an official-setting control.

B.4     Office-Home

Status: retrospective diagnostic; the five-checkpoint route is invalid.

B.4.1    Valid Descriptive Records

The primary Office-Home row (Venkateswara et al., 2017) is conservative. KGA regret is 0.0158, tying always-
freeze (0.0158) and below always-adapt (0.0468), with 0 adapt decisions. This is a descriptive point-estimate
match that evaluates conservative retention rather than selective routing. The archived protocol does not
supply a predeclared uniform stability guarantee for the full-fit versus out-of-fold benefit predictor.
The 54-cell Office-Home stream-seed replication in Table 8 has KGA regret 0.0215 versus 0.0458 and 0.0217, a
small point advantage relative to each fixed policy. The three run seeds do not record independent checkpoint
identities, and the seed-level interval includes zero, so the comparison remains descriptive.


Table 10: Historical Office-Home diagnostics with equal weight per recorded condition; lower accuracy regret
is better. The rows are separate experiments. The stream-seed replay uses a fixed SAR candidate. The five-
checkpoint route is invalid, so only its post-hoc fixed-SAR opportunity regret (.0027) and freeze regret (.0230)
remain; its actions have no routing or interval-support meaning. A/F/U denotes ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN.
No interval-supported claim is made.
Protocol                                                                n       Router / Adapt / Freeze             A/F/U
Archived stream-seed replay                                         54            .0215 / .0458 / .0217            1/14/39
Five-checkpoint candidate audit                                     15           invalid / .0027 / .0230             n/a


B.4.2    Invalid Five-Checkpoint Route

The post-hoc five-checkpoint Office-Home study is a candidate opportunity audit, not a valid KGA result.
It uses five independently trained source checkpoints, the three target-test domains, one fixed IID/tiny


                                                             23
Under review as submission to TMLR




condition, and Tent, EATA, and SAR. Checkpoint identity passed, but routing and serialization did not.
The identifying agreement relation is binary-only and does not apply to the 65-class task; the old spectral
estimate was sign-indeterminate and unbounded. Thirteen of 15 anchors were negative, 9 of 60 stored bb
values fell outside [0, 1], and EATA and SAR produced exactly the same predictions in 10 of 15 cells. The
historical leave-one-out audit has only three cells per checkpoint, whereas a 90% empirical order-statistic
single-candidate radius requires at least 10 total cells. All five result files fail strict JSON and contain 57
literal Infinity values in total.
The archived exploratory implementation printed abstain in all 15 cells, but those outputs have no safety,
routing, or interval-support meaning. The valid descriptive quantities are checkpoint accuracies and candidate
opportunity: freeze is 0.5711, SAR is 0.5914, their paired difference is 0.0203 (nominal post-hoc 95% t-interval
[0.0123, 0.0283]), and the per-cell oracle is 0.5941. Oracle minus SAR is 0.0027 (nominal post-hoc 95% interval
[−0.0024, 0.0077]). The best adapted candidate improves over freeze in 13 cells, ties in one, and harms in
one. Because the target was already opened and SAR was chosen after comparing the audit means, these
statistics are post-hoc opportunity evidence only.

B.5     Camelyon17

Status: opened, one-sided retrospective diagnostic.
The archived Camelyon17 OOD evaluation (Bandi et al., 2019) gives zero KGA and always-adapt regret,
versus 0.1381 for freeze. All 18 cells are helpful. This opened panel is therefore a one-sided descriptive
diagnostic, not prospective evidence of selective routing. The B–v2 within-seed diagnostics are separate.
Their regenerated Tent/EATA/SAR KGA regrets are 0.0446/0.0260/0.0289, versus always-adapt regrets
0.0097/0.0040/0.0016 and always-freeze regrets 0.0820/0.0911/0.1001. None has lower regret than both fixed
policies. The three run seeds do not identify independently trained checkpoints, and the target was already
open. These rows remain stress diagnostics, not untouched hospital-domain evidence.

B.6     RxRx1

Status: retrospective retention diagnostic.
The displayed RxRx1 row (Sypetkowski et al., 2023) is model seed 0: KGA and freeze regret are zero against
0.2531 for always-adapt, with no adapt decisions. A separate audit across three independently trained model
checkpoints repeats the same all-freeze tie. It strengthens model-variation reproducibility but adds no adapt
exposure. RxRx1 therefore evaluates reproducible conservative retention rather than selective routing.

B.7     iWildCam

Status: invalid current metric contract; no canonical numerical row.
iWildCam (Koh et al., 2021) is not assigned a canonical numerical row. The archived scorer used sklearn
macro-F1, which averages prediction-only classes, rather than the official WILDS metric, which averages
labels present in the target truth. The archived runtime, sample identities, and target population were
not sealed under the current contract, so its diagnostic scores and routing actions remain audit-only. A
pinned rerun with the official metric, sealed sample identifiers, and a population hash is required before
promotion. The older binary dominance flag and the later replay under the same invalid metric contract
remain hash-locked only as superseded audit history.

B.8     Boundary and Transfer Diagnostics

Status: retrospective transfer diagnostics.

B.8.1    PACS

PACS (Li et al., 2017) KGA regret is 0.0431, compared with 0.0176 for always-adapt. The regret summary
has 12 equal-weight domain–seed units. Its 216 action records are repeated decisions within those units, not


                                                      24
Under review as submission to TMLR




216 independent regret observations. The archive lacks the residual detail needed to replay the current gate,
so PACS remains an aggregate performance diagnostic.

B.8.2    ImageNet-R Backbone Breakdown

ImageNet-R (Hendrycks et al., 2021) KGA regret is 0.0137, compared with 0.0064 for always-adapt and
0.0325 for always-freeze, across the ten-backbone architecture panel. No backbone has lower KGA point
regret than each fixed comparator. KGA regret is higher than always-adapt regret on 8 of 10 backbones; four
of those eight have a 0% harmful base rate, so routing has no harm to avoid. On efficientnet_b0 (100%
harmful) and swin_t (60.4% harmful), KGA improves over always-adapt but exactly matches always-freeze
and makes no adapt decisions. The pattern is consistent with the regime map: routing can add value only
where candidate harm is present, while these two rows evaluate conservative retention rather than selective
routing.

B.8.3    CIFAR-10.1

CIFAR-10.1 (Recht et al., 2018) matches always-freeze at 0.0017 and is retained as a low-margin cross-seed
transfer diagnostic. This pattern alone does not prove structural non-identifiability; weak evidence, low
margin, estimator inadequacy, or calibration transfer can produce the same behavior.

B.9     Historical Protocol-Matched POEM and AETTA Ports

Status: historical local-port audit; not a synchronized official comparison. The repository retains
one historical head-to-head artifact on the CIFAR-10-C Tent stream. Its KGA, POEM-style, and AETTA-
style regrets are 0.00157361, 0.00880463, and 0.00732986; the associated always-adapt and always-freeze
regrets are 0.00792338 and 0.12409792. Historical KGA-minus-port paired differences and unadjusted 95%
paired-bootstrap intervals are

                            Port             Difference                  95% interval
                            POEM-style    −0.00723102      [−0.00878038, −0.00570806]
                            AETTA-style   −0.00575625      [−0.00714260, −0.00439859]

Holm adjustment applies only to the archived p-values; the adjusted value for each of these two comparisons
is 0.00039996.
Those estimates are protocol-matched diagnostics from local ports, not results from untouched official
implementations. They also use an earlier KGA policy and are not synchronized with the current three-way
cross-fit. The numerical ordering is therefore historical audit evidence only: it does not establish current-
policy or official superiority. The source artifact is experiments/kbound/results/mixed_headtohead_v1/
HEADTOHEAD_RESULTS_cifar10c_tent_primary.json; its stored WIN and kga_beats labels are withdrawn
from the current claim set. A defensible new comparison would replay all methods on identical current-policy
records and freeze the multiplicity family before scoring.

B.10     So2Sat Development and Action-Unit Audit

Status: development stop before target access.
The locked So2Sat-LCZ42 v1 study screened Tent and SAR in a development-only, multi-city, multi-checkpoint
candidate-feasibility stage. It was not a target evaluation. Tent showed both helpful and harmful development
cases, but neither candidate passed every predeclared eligibility check. The locked status is therefore no
feasible candidate; stop before gate calibration. The detailed development authority and its binding receipt
remain outside the default public build closure; the public release records only the protocol shape, stopping
decision, and access boundary.
No held-out gate-calibration rows or target inputs, pixels, or labels were accessed. The study therefore
contains no target natural-shift score. The gate-fit outcomes are open, so retuning on them cannot create


                                                      25
Under review as submission to TMLR




fresh confirmatory evidence. V1 also declares one target action per city while its target runner creates city–
checkpoint actions. This mismatch did not affect the stop because no target action was created. Prospective
v2 resolves the action unit as city–checkpoint and supplies a source-complete runner. It remains a no-go:
no v2 pre-calibration seal or target authorization exists, and gate calibration and target evaluation remain
unopened. V2 does not retroactively change the negative v1 record.




B.11     Withdrawn Development Proxy for the Population Budget


Status: negative retrospective diagnostic; estimation route withdrawn.
An unlabeled deployment batch cannot verify |γ| ≤ β, and β = 0 is not a safe default. The tested source-like
development proxy was 1.4–50× too small on real evaluation cells: 24–73% fell outside Cβ , commit error
was 0.4–16.6%, and five of ten configurations returned zero commitments on all 405 ImageNet-C cells. The
proxy did not observe the theorem’s disagreement-conditional residual, and its named raw artifact is not
regenerable from the canonical bundle. We therefore withdraw estimation and require domain knowledge, a
declared coupling, or historical labeled deployments under a transfer assumption.
The population layer targets ∆, whereas empirical calibration targets ∆cell . Appendix A states the additional
sampling argument needed to bridge them. Neither layer establishes risk alignment, estimator transfer, or
residual coverage in a new domain.




C      Compact Assumption and Claim Ledger



Table 11 separates formal claims from empirical findings and records the conditions and scope limits for each.




Table 11: Formal half of the claim-to-support ledger. Each row separates its target and assumptions from
what is and is not supported.
Statement and target          Required assumption or protocol        Supported conclusion            Not supported
Disagreement reduction;       binary labels, 0/1 loss, fixed pair,   ∆ = 2µT (D)(M + γ)              calibration transfer or ob-
population ∆                  µT (D) > 0                                                             servability of γ
Interior ambiguity; popu-     Thm. 1; β > 0, |M | < β, fibre rich-   evidence-identical laws with    ambiguity outside the de-
lation ∆                      ness                                   opposite nonzero benefit        clared class
Closed band; population       Prop. 1; strict semantics and rich-    no uniformly sound strict ac-   unequal task risk at every
∆                             ness                                   tion on |M | ≤ β                boundary law
Strict frontier; population   Thm. 2; fixed evidence and declared    pointwise maximal sound         learning β from the unla-
∆                             Cβ                                     three-action rule               beled batch
Audit floor; residual ra-     common observable-law fibre and        b ≥ Γz with the stated prob-
                                                                     β                               a finite-batch estimator or
dius                          uniform validity                       ability                         data-learned β
Coverage-to-action; de-       Prop. 2 and Eq. (9)                    marginal false ADAPT and        population-risk,     condi-
clared cell target B                                                 false FREEZE control for B      tional, group, or anytime
                                                                                                     control



                                                                26
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 12: Empirical and future-evidence half of the claim-to-support ledger. Evaluation units and statuses
remain protocol-specific; no row upgrades retrospective evidence.
Statement and target         Required assumption or protocol        Supported conclusion              Not supported
CIFAR-10-C;    measured      opened one-checkpoint grid and         candidate-specific actions, er-   prospective confirmation;
cells                        outcome-disjoint cross-fit             rors, and point regret; Tent      six-contrast Holm rejection
                                                                    nominal intervals favorable
CCT-20; measured cells       locked 45-cell protocol and declared   all-frozen utility preservation   selective routing, improve-
                             utility endpoint                       with 0/44/1 actions               ment over always-freeze, or
                                                                                                      population safety
Other natural replays;       Tables 8–9; fixed splits and candi-    protocol-specific retention or    one pooled success claim
measured cells               dates                                  adverse behavior
So2Sat; development eligi-   Sec. 8.4; locked feasibility rules     no candidate passed the pre-      gate calibration or a target
bility                                                              target screen                     score
ImageNet-C; measured         Table 8; candidates and operating      candidate-specific diagnostic     dataset-wide or published-
cells                        points kept separate                   evidence                          default conclusion
Other     replay   scope;    Tables 8–9                             observed protocol behavior        structural unknowability or
recorded units                                                                                        universal transfer
Prospective confirmation;    Sec. K; diverse unopened environ-      a frozen evaluation design        a current empirical result
future targets               ments
Physical camera; future      locked session split and held-out      protocol infrastructure only      a completed camera result
sessions                     recordings



D     Calibration and Evaluation Contracts

D.1    Controlled-Grid Contract

The CIFAR-10-C grid is an opened, dependent, constructed six-family diagnostic. Its fitting unit is the
condition cell. Stable identifiers assign deterministic score folds. For each fold, its complement is divided into
disjoint estimator-fit and residual-calibration subsets. The fitted predictor and exact-rank radius are then
applied only to the score fold. Consequently, the scored outcome Bi = ∆cell     i    enters neither the fit nor the
calibration set that determines its own prediction, radius, or action. This is a three-way cell-outcome-disjoint
cross-fit, not leave-one-cell-out calibration.
The CIFAR-10-C grid uses one ResNet-18 checkpoint and five RNG stream/run seeds. Within each seed
it crosses six corruption families, severities 1 and 5, batch sizes 200/16/8, IID/imbalanced/single-class
composition, two update schedules (10 steps at 10−3 and 50 steps at 2.5 × 10−3 ), and two repeats: 432 cells
per seed and 2,160 per candidate. Point summaries weight cells equally. The family analysis first averages
seeds and cells within a family and then weights the six family means equally. These are opened, dependent,
constructed cells coupled through one corpus and checkpoint; the cross-fit does not make them exchangeable
or validate coverage on unseen environments.
Tent, EATA, and SAR are local protocol-matched ports. Candidate preview runs in training mode with
BatchNorm running statistics disabled, so the measured delta combines evaluation-batch statistic replacement
with gradient updates to normalization affine parameters. The two recorded update schedules are part of the
grid. They are not untouched reproductions of each method’s published default operating point; the main
text gives the additional SAR-specific departure.

D.2    Natural-Shift Contract

Development conditions fit the benefit model; a disjoint calibration partition supplies residuals; choices are
frozen; and the target partition is scored once where the archived protocol records all three stages. When the
saved evidence does not support that complete chain, the row is marked descriptive or diagnostic. Replaying
a table does not strengthen its original design.
The candidate TTA step itself is transductive. Episodic candidates update on each unlabeled evaluation batch
before predicting that batch. Online candidates update on a separate auxiliary stream, but prediction still
uses evaluation-batch BatchNorm statistics. Thus “disjoint” above refers to development, residual-calibration,


                                                               27
Under review as submission to TMLR




and target partitions (and to the recorded auxiliary stream versus evaluation sample identities); it does not
mean that candidate inference is inductive. No target labels enter adaptation, prediction, evidence, or the
action.

D.3    Action Contract

Every action is computed from Z, ∆,  b and ε without target labels. Offline labels determine ∆cell , the measured
oracle action, empirical regret, and false-commit indicators only after the action is fixed. Existing artifact
fields named delta store this cell outcome; their schema and numerical values are unchanged. Abstention
resolves to the frozen prediction for measured task-performance accounting, while its log retains the distinction
from an interval-supported FREEZE decision.
The whole-pipeline invariant is tested by perturbing one scored Bi and rerunning all fits. Its b     ∆i , εi , and
action must remain unchanged. The maintained test tests/test_controlled_grid_crossfit.py checks
this for the implementation and also exhibits the old radius leak as a negative control. This is a software
non-leakage result for the scored cell; it does not prove exchangeability, estimator validity, or future-domain
coverage.

D.4    Configuration Contract

A configuration identity binds the checkpoint, adapter and update settings, evidence schema, benefit estimator,
residual construction, α, and action unit. Section H records that identity once. Any mismatch requires a
declared transfer argument or recalibration; otherwise the controller does not commit.


E     Decision Exposure and Repetition Audit

Point regret alone can conceal whether a conservative match exercised the ADAPT branch. Table 13 therefore
reconstructs action counts from the same canonical panel used in the main-paper primary CIFAR table 5 and
Tables 8 and 9. A/F/U denote adapt, freeze, and abstain. PACS is omitted from the action table because
the released aggregate cross-checks regret but does not contain the per-cell benefit estimates and residuals
required for a complete gate replay. We omit iWildCam because its archived actions were scored under the
wrong macro-F1 contract.


Table 13: Action exposure in replayable rows. A/F/U denotes ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN. Counts are
unweighted evaluation cells, not independent experiments; regret tables use the weighting declared by each
protocol. False A/A and false F/F use the corresponding action denominator. A dash means that the
direction was unexposed or was not reconstructed by the maintained authority; it does not mean zero error.
Controlled-grid rows use the current three-way cross-fit; the remaining rows retain their stated diagnostic
protocol. The canonical numerical panel is bound to SHA-256 35d4c165843de1ece3cb35ffb4ac50dbfcbfa3
3b646754e2b6d133fbdfa78c6e; its input inventory is bound separately by the source manifest.
       Row                     n    A    F   U false A/A false F/F                 repetition / scope
       Office–Home primary      35    0 11 24          –       –             2 test-stream seeds; ties freeze
       Office–Home    stream-   54    1 14 39        0/1       –          3 test-stream seeds; point-only edge
       seed repl.
       ImageNet–C SAR          135   28   9 98      0/28       –                    5 seeds × 27 cells
       ImageNet–C Tent         135    3   2 130      3/3       –                    5 seeds × 27 cells
       ImageNet–C EATA         135 108    1 26     1/108       –                    5 seeds × 27 cells
       ImageNet–R              480 179 34 267      6/179       –           4 seeds × 10 backbones × 12 cells
       CIFAR–10–C Tent        2160 1091 337 732   2/1091     1/337                  5 seeds × 432 cells
       CIFAR–10–C EATA        2160 1207 105 848   0/1207     0/105                  5 seeds × 432 cells
       CIFAR–10–C SAR         2160 1414   0 746   0/1414       –                  no FREEZE exposure
       CCT–20                   45    0 44    1        –     1/44              5 checkpoints × 9 locations
       Camelyon17 OOD           18   18   0   0     0/18       –            opened helpful-only OOD subset
       Camelyon17 B–v2 Tent    108   27   0 81      0/27       –             3 within-seed grids; diagnostic
       Camelyon17 B–v2 EATA 108      51   0 57      3/51       –             3 within-seed grids; diagnostic
       Camelyon17 B–v2 SAR     108   52   0 56      1/52       –             3 within-seed grids; diagnostic
       RxRx1 J                  60    0 60    0        –       –     model seed 0; 3-checkpoint audit also all-freeze
       CIFAR–10.1 K             48    0 22 26          –       –                 locked cross-seed replay



                                                        28
Under review as submission to TMLR




The largest adapt exposure occurs on CIFAR-10-C, making it the main diagnostic of the adapt branch. Tent
records two false adaptations among 1,091 ADAPT decisions and one false FREEZE among 337 FREEZE
decisions; EATA and SAR record no false adaptations, although SAR never exposes FREEZE. The CCT-20
row supplies the complementary all-frozen case: one false FREEZE among 44 FREEZE decisions and no
ADAPT exposure. Primary Office-Home and RxRx1 have zero adapt exposure, while the 54-cell Office-Home
replication has one adapt decision. Those rows chiefly test conservative retention. The invalid five-checkpoint
Office-Home route and the invalid-metric iWildCam archive are excluded. Camelyon17 OOD has the opposite
limitation: every archived cell is helpful and every action adapts. On ImageNet-C, Tent makes three ADAPT
decisions and all are false adaptations, whereas EATA makes 108 ADAPT decisions with one false adaptation
and SAR makes 28 with none. Similar regret values can therefore hide different operating behavior.
The repetition column also prevents a common inflation of evidence. Five seeds of one checkpoint and grid
protocol are not five independently designed studies. Ten ImageNet-R backbones are a panel of candidate
policies, not ten target domains for one frozen gate. Three Camelyon17 within-seed grids permit a stability
diagnostic but do not create an untouched hospital-domain replication. RxRx1 is stronger on model variation
because the source checkpoint is independently trained three times, but its all-freeze behavior still provides
no adapt exposure.

F     Inference Discipline

F.1   Point Estimates, Paired Gaps, and Clusters

For a baseline b ∈ {always-adapt, always-freeze}, the paired routing gap at condition j is

                                         Gbj = regretb,j − regretKGA,j .

A positive mean gap means lower regret for KGA. All paired routing-gap intervals reported in this paper
use this baseline-minus-KGA sign convention. The point-estimate two-comparator criterion requires both
means to be positive. Interval support additionally requires the lower confidence limit for both paired means
to exceed zero at the declared resampling unit. These definitions are intentionally separate: Table 8 can
establish a point ordering, but not an inference claim without the associated unit, interval artifact, and
justified coverage assumptions. A positive computed lower endpoint is numerical interval support under the
resampling model, not verified coverage. Multiplicity adjustments do not repair invalid marginal intervals or
tests.
Condition-level resampling treats cells as exchangeable and can understate uncertainty when severities and
compositions share a corruption family. Corruption-family resampling preserves observed within-family
dependence, but few clusters limit reliability; conservativeness is not guaranteed. Seed resampling measures
variation across repeated training or test streams only when the seeds represent the intended deployment
randomness. The compact paper therefore does not use one generic “bootstrap CI” label. An inference claim
must state whether the unit is cell, corruption–severity pair, corruption family, seed, backbone, domain, or
physical session.
For a vector of cluster gaps G = (G1 , . . . , Gm ), the exact sign-flip reference calculation uses the joint null
condition
                                     d
                                  G = s ⊙ G for every s ∈ {−1, +1}m .                                         (12)
Independent zero-symmetric cluster gaps are sufficient. Exchangeability, marginal symmetry, or one global
sign symmetry alone is not sufficient. Enumeration removes Monte Carlo error but does not establish this
null condition.

F.2   Current-Policy Corruption-Family Sensitivity

The retrospective family contains all six candidate-by-baseline contrasts. The replay policy, corruption-family
unit, sign-flip reference test, and Holm adjustment were selected after the underlying CIFAR outcomes
were open. The current-policy artifact averages run seeds and condition cells within each of the six
families. Tent’s nominal intervals favor KGA against always-adapt ([0.002087, 0.009537]) and always-freeze


                                                       29
Under review as submission to TMLR




([0.062822, 0.177573]). EATA’s adapt-side interval crosses zero ([−0.001348, 0.004382]), although its freeze-side
interval is positive. SAR is worse than always-adapt. These nominal bootstrap intervals are distinct from the
retrospective sign-flip/Holm analysis. The within-Tent two-contrast Holm calculation is itself post hoc and is
not the six-test family reported in Table 14.


Table 14: Retrospective sensitivity over six opened CIFAR-10-C corruption families. Each candidate uses 2,160
cells from one checkpoint; seeds and conditions are averaged within family, and the six family means receive
equal weight. Entries are baseline regret minus KGA regret with nominal, unadjusted 95% family-bootstrap
intervals; positive values favor KGA. Holm values adjust the six retrospective sign-flip reference tests. For Tent,
the post-hoc within-candidate Holm values are 0.046875 (adapt) and 0.03125 (freeze), while the six-contrast
values are 0.140625 and 0.09375. The replay, unit, tests, and adjustment were not preregistered. The
table supplies no verified coverage, independent-checkpoint inference, prospective confirmation, natural-shift
evidence, or official POEM/AETTA comparison.
Candidate           Adapt gap [95% CI]                     Freeze gap [95% CI]           Six-way Holm p (A/F)
Tent             0.00606 [0.00209, 0.00954]             0.12202 [0.06282, 0.17757]           0.14062/0.09375
EATA             0.00164 [-0.00135, 0.00438]            0.12970 [0.06893, 0.18746]           0.31250/0.09375
SAR             -0.00145 [-0.00294, -0.00027]           0.13869 [0.07972, 0.19683]           0.90625/0.09375


F.3   Retrospective Interval Inclusion by Family

This audit summarizes the stored per-cell authority produced by the three-way cross-fit. For every scored cell,
its measured outcome was absent from both estimator fitting and residual calibration. The audit performs no
tuning, new target access, or training; it verifies the stored predictions, radii, actions, and input/code/output
digests.
The observed inclusion counts are 1,976/2,160 for Tent, 1,950/2,160 for EATA, and 1,949/2,160 for SAR.
Tent also has one false FREEZE among 337 FREEZE decisions. These are in-sample cross-fit diagnostics on
opened, dependent cells, not independent estimates for new environments. Family rows localize misses and
widths but do not supply group-conditional guarantees. The nominal 90% setting is therefore not a validated
coverage promise.


Table 15: Overall retrospective interval diagnostics for 2,160 equally weighted cells per CIFAR-10-C candidate.
Inclusion concerns measured cell benefit, not population benefit. Marginal directional errors divide by all cells;
conditional errors divide by the corresponding action count and are undefined when that action is absent.
 Candidate      n   Nominal    Inclusion   Mean width     Median width   Commitment        FAu /FAc        FFu /FFc
 TENT        2160     0.9000     0.9148        0.0478           0.0457        0.6611   0.0009/0.0018   0.0005/0.0030
 EATA        2160     0.9000     0.9028        0.0397           0.0389        0.6074   0.0000/0.0000   0.0000/0.0000
 SAR         2160     0.9000     0.9023        0.0286           0.0290        0.6546   0.0000/0.0000        0.0000/–




                                                          30
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 16: Current-policy interval and decision diagnostics by corruption family. Each row aggregates equal-
weight opened cells after the three-way cross-fit; the scored cell outcome enters neither its fit nor calibration
set. Width is 2ε, and A/F/U means ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN. Conditional errors use the corresponding
action count as denominator and are undefined when that action is absent. The table is retrospective and is
not held-out group-coverage validation.
 Candidate    Family               n   Inclusion   Mean width    Commitment     False A/A; FAc   False F/F; FFc
 TENT         contrast           360      0.8361        0.0478         0.6917   0/180; 0.0000    0/69; 0.0000
 TENT         defocus_blur       360      0.9417        0.0480         0.7083   0/180; 0.0000    0/75; 0.0000
 TENT         fog                360      0.9472        0.0480         0.6917   0/180; 0.0000    0/69; 0.0000
 TENT         gaussian_noise     360      0.8667        0.0480         0.8556   0/305; 0.0000    1/3; 0.3333
 TENT         jpeg_compression   360      0.9694        0.0478         0.3472   2/66; 0.0303     0/59; 0.0000
 TENT         pixelate           360      0.9278        0.0475         0.6722   0/180; 0.0000    0/62; 0.0000
 EATA         contrast           360      0.8417        0.0396         0.5694   0/180; 0.0000    0/25; 0.0000
 EATA         defocus_blur       360      0.9278        0.0398         0.5694   0/180; 0.0000    0/25; 0.0000
 EATA         fog                360      0.9139        0.0399         0.5750   0/180; 0.0000    0/27; 0.0000
 EATA         gaussian_noise     360      0.8528        0.0399         0.9722   0/350; 0.0000    0/0; –
 EATA         jpeg_compression   360      0.9694        0.0396         0.4056   0/137; 0.0000    0/9; 0.0000
 EATA         pixelate           360      0.9111        0.0393         0.5528   0/180; 0.0000    0/19; 0.0000
 SAR          contrast           360      0.8694        0.0287         0.5000   0/180; 0.0000    0/0; –
 SAR          defocus_blur       360      0.9306        0.0287         0.5000   0/180; 0.0000    0/0; –
 SAR          fog                360      0.8944        0.0283         0.5000   0/180; 0.0000    0/0; –
 SAR          gaussian_noise     360      0.8417        0.0286         1.0000   0/360; 0.0000    0/0; –
 SAR          jpeg_compression   360      0.9667        0.0283         0.8944   0/322; 0.0000    0/0; –
 SAR          pixelate           360      0.9111        0.0288         0.5333   0/192; 0.0000    0/0; –




F.4    False-Adapt and False-Freeze Accounting

The event in Eq. (4) is unconditional and concerns measured cell benefit. Its reported frequency divides
ADAPT decisions with ∆cell j   ≤ 0 by all evaluated units, including freezes and abstentions. This need not
estimate the population-harm event {g = adapt, ∆ ≤ 0}. Conditional false-adapt divides by adapt decisions
and is undefined when no adaptation occurs. A zero observed count should be accompanied by the number of
adapt decisions; otherwise a controller that never adapts appears perfect. Table 13 exposes that denominator.
False FREEZE is the symmetric event: the policy chooses FREEZE when measured cell benefit is nonnegative.
Its marginal rate divides by all evaluated units, whereas its conditional rate divides by FREEZE exposure.
The latter is undefined when the policy never freezes, as in the current SAR grid. Every directional-error
statement therefore appears with its action denominator.
The three-way split removes the direct path from Bi to its own prediction, radius, and action. It does not
make the overlapping fitted models or the constructed cells independent. Pooled cross-fit inclusion therefore
remains a descriptive reuse of the opened panel and supplies neither exchangeability nor a finite-sample
guarantee for the next corruption family. A genuinely held-out family or environment remains a different
protocol.



F.5    Multiplicity and Search History

The repository contains many exploratory configurations. One superseded census reported 1,387 determina-
tions and 326 positives (23.5%); a broader archived scan reported 1,427 determinations and 345 positives
(24.2%). Neither census froze one family definition, file list, and commit, so neither is the release multiplicity
family. The reconciled panel is also post hoc, although some component protocols were individually locked.
Confirmatory work must declare every candidate–track test, calibration and target unit, seed structure,
inference unit, and two-comparator criterion before labels are opened, while retaining failures and incomplete
runs.


                                                       31
Under review as submission to TMLR




G     Track-Level Provenance and CCT Ledger
Separate archival records preserve two additional scope checks outside the canonical panel. FMoW Protocol L
reached held-out scoring and matched always-freeze, while always-adapt had lower regret; its status remains
not-cleared. PovertyMap stopped at its preregistered development screen because the harm-detection AUC
was 0.637, below the 0.65 threshold, so held-out validation and test scoring did not run. These records remain
in the claim inventory and are not pooled with the canonical rows.
The provenance table is part of the result, not administrative metadata. A reviewer can trace a canonical row
to compact records and their original archive hashes. If the original large artifact is not shipped, the manifest
still records its byte count and digest. This guards against silent replacement of a result while allowing the
release to omit raw datasets and oversized transient checkpoints.


Table 17: Release-status inventory, not a performance comparison. “Replayable” means stored quantities
suffice to recompute the displayed gate output under the named scorer; it does not imply fresh data,
independent units, or confirmatory status. Units and weighting remain protocol-specific.
Track                 Released status           Present evidence                        Remaining limitation
                                                          cell
CIFAR-10-C            replayable diagnostic     per-cell ∆   , ∆
                                                               b , radius, action; 5    opened, dependent, constructed grid from
                                                RNG seeds; 3 candidates                 one checkpoint; no untouched family
ImageNet-C            replayable diagnostic     per-condition records for 5 seeds       opened 27-cell controlled configuration;
                                                and Tent/EATA/SAR                       candidate-specific, not one policy
Office-Home           replayable                canonical primary and 54-cell           full-fit-versus-OOF        transfer-stability
                                                stream-seed records; later five-        premise not predeclared
                                                checkpoint audit reported sepa-
                                                rately
iWildCam              invalid archived diag-    opened test-split records scored        no completed current-protocol or official-
                      nostic                    with the wrong macro-F1 definition      metric result; population and overlap were
                                                                                        not sealed
Camelyon17            replayable diagnostic     archived opened OOD row plus sep-       OOD row is one-sided and non-prospective;
                                                arate B–v2 diagnostics                  B–v2 is not untouched-domain evidence
RxRx1                 replayable                displayed model-seed-0 row plus         all three checkpoints freeze throughout; no
                                                three model-checkpoint records and      helpful test conditions
                                                source hashes
CCT-20                release-complete; cell-   5 independent checkpoints, 9 tar-       aggregate target-label metadata had pre-
                      outcome-unopened,         get locations, actions, predictions,    viously been inspected; not globally label-
                      internally     sealed     score, manifest, and receipts           unopened or publicly preregistered; only two
                      execution                                                         fit locations; no ADAPT exposure; trans-
                                                                                        target extrapolation remains an assumption
So2Sat-LCZ42          sealed    development     Tent and SAR candidate bundles;         no feasible candidate; gate-fit outcomes are
                      stop                      multi-city, multi-checkpoint gate-fit   open; no gate calibration or target result
                                                screen; no gate-calibration or target
                                                access
PACS                  partial                   three-seed aggregate and source         missing per-cell ∆
                                                                                                         b and residuals prevent full
                                                cross-checks                            gate replay
ImageNet-R            replayable                4 seeds, 10 candidate backbones, 12     architecture aggregate is diagnostic, not one
                                                conditions each                         deployable router
CIFAR-10.1            replayable                locked cross-seed condition records     low-margin conservative match; selective
                                                                                        routing not exercised
Physical camera       protocol only             dashboard, logging schema, and          no completed fresh recording, held-out ses-
                                                planned session split                   sion, or result table



G.1     CCT-20 Inference, Location, and Release Ledger

Provenance ledger. This was a cell-outcome-unopened, internally sealed execution: individual cell
outcomes remained unopened until one-shot scoring. Aggregate target-label metadata had previously
been inspected, so the study was not globally label-unopened or publicly preregistered. Item-level target
labels were deserialized once, after the one-shot scoring marker was spent. The release chain also records
the numeric-v2 repair in a sealed addendum created before outcome access. That repair replaced an
unstable divergence calculation with a stable Gaussian KL computation; it did not change the model,
data split, or scoring rule. We treat it as protocol provenance, not result-driven tuning. All primary
outcomes and action/effect counts come from paper/generated/cct20_release_manifest.json. Its sidecar
paper/generated/cct20_release_manifest.json.receipt.json binds the file-level digest; the generated
macros instead record canonicalized inference-document SHA-256 5d1ba74d9a8b16ef24746ca3d95969e635d
34fd4112806f6bf91b4b45a6cf907.


                                                                 32
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 18: Locked CCT-20 primary contrasts over 45 equal-weight checkpoint–location cells from five
independent checkpoints and nine location clusters. The estimand is baseline regret minus KGA regret, so
positive values favor KGA. A paired two-way product bootstrap resamples checkpoint rows and location
columns. Two nominal 97.5% intervals target a nominal 95% Bonferroni family level; actual family coverage
still requires valid marginals. Reference p-values enumerate one-sided sign flips of nine location means, with
Holm adjustment. This cell-outcome-unopened execution reproduces the locked calculation but does not
establish a population guarantee.
Comparator      Baseline regret − KGA regret         Nominal 97.5% CI      Sign-flip p      Holm p    Holm flag (.05)
Always adapt                     0.18190227    [0.08501071, 0.31066374]    0.00195312    0.00390625        yes
Always freeze                             0                       [0, 0]            1             1        no




Locked thresholds. Strong success required all six conditions: all 45 cells complete; both nominal 97.5%
Bonferroni intervals strictly above zero; both exact nine-location sign-flip tests surviving Holm at 0.05;
ADAPT rate at least 0.10; FREEZE rate at least 0.10; and total commitment at least 0.30. Completion,
freeze exposure, and commitment passed. The interval and test requirements failed against always-freeze,
and ADAPT exposure was zero. The release therefore fails the strong-success criterion.
The nominal pointwise 95% intervals in the CCT utility-preservation table 6 belong to the locked utility-
preservation endpoint. The nominal 97.5% Bonferroni intervals in the strong-success audit in Table 18 belong
to a separate, stricter two-comparison criterion; they are not alternate versions of the same interval.
Finite-sample sign-flip validity requires the null joint law of the nine location gaps to satisfy Eq. (12).
Independent zero-symmetric location gaps conditional on the evaluated checkpoints would suffice, but that
assumption is unverified here. Exchangeability alone does not suffice. The sign-flip analysis conditions on the
evaluated checkpoints, whereas the two-way bootstrap also resamples checkpoint levels. These are different
uncertainty models, and neither establishes distribution-free safety for unseen locations.

Primary result. KGA exactly matched always-freeze. Its contrast against always-freeze was 0 with
nominal Bonferroni-adjusted 97.5% bootstrap interval [0, 0], enumerated location sign-flip p = 1, and Holm
p = 1. Against always-adapt, the contrast was 0.18190227 with interval [0.08501071, 0.31066374], sign-flip
reference p = 0.00195312, and Holm p = 0.00390625. Measured cell benefit is adapted accuracy minus
frozen accuracy: 1 cell was helpful, 0 were exactly zero, and 44 were harmful. These counts explain why
freezing was useful here. They do not show that the gate learned when to adapt. KGA made 0/44/1
ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN decisions. All 45 served predictions used the frozen model, but the sole helpful
cell received an interval-supported FREEZE, yielding one false FREEZE among 44 FREEZE actions (1/45
overall). This is all-frozen fail-closed service. It passes only the locked utility-preservation rule and does not
demonstrate selective routing or strong success.

Limits and next step. All 55 development cells showed lower performance after Tent than under the
frozen model, so the gate had no helpful ADAPT example. The ridge fit used 10 checkpoint–location rows
from only two camera units for 11 recorded features. Calibration used 45 rows collapsed to nine calibration
camera locations, while the locked targets came from held-out target locations. Coverage therefore needs
an unverified cross-split exchangeability assumption. Target Mahalanobis diagnostics ranged from 7.12 to
485.67 (median 28.73), showing strong extrapolation; this diagnostic never changed an action and is not a
formal coverage guarantee. One natural target study also cannot establish transfer of selective routing across
natural shifts. Cell-level 16-indicator macro-F1 is archived as descriptive secondary evidence; no post-hoc
aggregate or inference claim is made.
Table 19 reports all nine location clusters. Evaluation n is the number of evaluation images per checkpoint at
that location. Each A/F/U triplet and each helpful/zero/harmful triplet therefore has denominator five, one
cell for each checkpoint. These labels describe measured cell outcomes. Accuracy differences use one sign
throughout: adapted minus frozen for adaptation benefit, and KGA minus the named fixed policy for the two
policy columns.


                                                        33
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 19:       Complete cell-outcome-unopened CCT-20 location ledger.                   A/F/U denotes
ADAPT/FREEZE/ABSTAIN, and +/0/− counts positive/zero/negative measured-benefit cells. Difference
columns are equal-weight means over five checkpoint cells; positive policy differences favor KGA. Values
are rounded to four decimals, while the sealed manifest retains full precision. Cells are repeated-model
observations, and the inferential cluster unit is the camera location.
        Location   n/checkpoint   A/F/U    Benefit +/0/−   Adapt − freeze   KGA − adapt    KGA − freeze
        0                 1302     0/5/0          0/0/5           -0.5418         0.5418         0.0000
        7                 1283     0/5/0          1/0/4           -0.0293         0.0293         0.0000
        28                 911     0/5/0          0/0/5           -0.0562         0.0562         0.0000
        40                 800     0/5/0          0/0/5           -0.1232         0.1232         0.0000
        46                4432     0/4/1          0/0/5           -0.0723         0.0723         0.0000
        78                1633     0/5/0          0/0/5           -0.0839         0.0839         0.0000
        100               3441     0/5/0          0/0/5           -0.2035         0.2035         0.0000
        105               1540     0/5/0          0/0/5           -0.2892         0.2892         0.0000
        130                983     0/5/0          0/0/5           -0.2376         0.2376         0.0000



The release ledger contains all 45 cells: 0 ADAPT, 44 FREEZE, and 1 ABSTAIN actions; 1 helpful, 0 zero,
and 44 harmful adaptation effects. The release verdict remains SAFE UTILITY ONLY. The location table is
descriptive; sign-flip enumeration uses the nine location means under the reference model in Eq. (12), and no
post-hoc aggregate is claimed for the secondary macro-F1 outcome.


H     Extended KGA Implementation Contract

H.1   State Isolation

The frozen and candidate predictors must not share mutable normalization buffers, optimizer state, or
parameter storage during preview. The candidate is created from a checkpoint, adapted on the unlabeled
window, and evaluated without overwriting the active state. Only an adapt decision may replace the active
checkpoint. Freeze and abstain discard the temporary state. A proposed deployment test should hash the
active parameters before and after each non-adapt decision and require equality.

H.2   Evidence Determinism

Evidence extraction must define preprocessing, batch order, numerical precision, class ordering, normalization
constants, and missing-value behavior. Paired features require frozen and candidate outputs on the same
samples in the same order. Source statistics and ATC thresholds are immutable calibration artifacts. Evidence
schema versions should be explicit rather than inferred from vector length, because two schemas can share a
dimension while changing semantics.

H.3   Calibration Identity

The calibration identity should hash the source checkpoint, candidate adapter class, adapted parameter
names, optimizer and learning rate, update steps, evidence schema, benefit-model hyperparameters, feature
scaler, residual construction, α, and inference-unit definition. The radius belongs to that identity. Reusing it
after a candidate or evidence change is not a benign software optimization; it changes the random variable
whose residual is being covered.

H.4   Runtime Accounting

A deployment report should time capture/preprocessing, frozen inference, candidate adaptation, candidate
inference, evidence extraction, benefit prediction, interval decision, copy creation, and rollback separately.
Mean and tail latency should be reported at the decision-window level. Peak memory should include both
model states and optimizer buffers. The compact manuscript leaves these cells unfilled because the canonical


                                                      34
Under review as submission to TMLR




cross-dataset manifest does not provide one comparable runtime measurement. Omitting an unsupported
number is preferable to quoting controller-only latency as end-to-end cost.

I      Evidence Inventory

I.1      Protocol-Specific Feature and Model Schemas

The controlled-grid implementation records 11 label-free coordinates with effective rank 9. Two coordinates
are deterministic differences:

                                  entropy_drop = pre_entropy − post_entropy,
                                     pbal_drop = pre_pbal − post_pbal.

The panel therefore contains 11 stored values, not 11 independent information sources. Together they describe
confidence, class balance, change from the frozen model, and update size.
The exact common coordinate order is

             pre_entropy, pre_conf, pre_pbal, post_entropy, post_conf, post_pbal, pbal_drop, entropy_
             drop, frac_highconf, marginal_KL, and update_norm.

The canonical evidence-contract digest for this ordered schema is 76b3951e77c42bbb1359123abd8d937b087c
9c42ba0f14e11e61f9aca132f7f7. The current controlled cross-fit passes these recorded coordinates directly
to the GBRT; it applies no separate feature scaler. Nonfinite evidence or outcomes are rejected, and a split
that cannot support the exact rank receives an infinite radius and therefore no commitment.
The shared historical builders use natural-log predictive entropy. They normalize class-marginal entropy
by log K, stabilize logarithms at 10−9 , define the high-confidence fraction with a fixed candidate-confidence
threshold of 0.9, and retain marginal KL on its raw scale. The Office-Home builder uses the analogous
definitions with 10−12 log stabilization. These constants are part of the recorded schema: changing one
creates a new evidence variable even when the coordinate name and dimension remain unchanged.


Table 20: Evidence-schema identity crosswalk. Digests bind ordered names and dimensions for the archived
contracts; the CCT row instead records its explicit trace schema and sealed gate document. Preprocessing
and invalid-input behavior are part of the protocol, not interchangeable defaults.
    Authority              Dim.    Schema identity                    Model-side preprocessing       Invalid or unavailable state
    Common            con- 11      76b3951e77c42bbb1359123abd8d937    raw coordinates to candidate- controlled cross-fit fail-closes
    trolled/archive                b087c9c42ba0f14e11e61f9aca132f7    specific GBRT                 malformed or nonfinite ma-
                                   f7                                                               trices
    Camelyon17 OOD         17      bf6eb06e5048705c02293c85038c732    raw coordinates to archived record      validator      rejects
                                   e0aacc6e6737f6cb481b3bc5df83ca7    GBRT                          wrong width or nonfinite
                                   46                                                               values
    Office-Home            18      a363c05a2475f3170976b8f7efc3076    raw coordinates to archived absent source logits use
                                   3859e29b9cfe1714f9c4f91a4f1e892    GBRT                          recorded zero fallbacks for en-
                                   bc                                                               ergy shift and ATC
    RxRx1                  11      names unrecovered; 8444fd5826435   archived model only; coordi- validator rejects wrong width
                                   0b2379bff08f5ccc0259f381265db7a    nate names are not inferred or nonfinite values
                                   03f9e0b48415e562805e
    CCT-20                 11      kbound_cct20_label_free_trace_     fit-location    mean  and exact-schema, finiteness, or
                                   features_v1; sealed gate docu-     population-SD standardiza- support failure returns AB-
                                   ment 74db83cca3641c505735bcc9db    tion before ridge          STAIN
                                   4f76c588148f1ebb4d7d7c2b713bfbb
                                   6eda0e7



Natural-shift artifacts do not all use the same schema. The Camelyon17 OOD record uses the common 11
coordinates plus disagreement_rate, entropy_gap, energy_shift, bn_kl, atc_acc_est, and conf_drop;
its 17-coordinate digest is bf6eb06e5048705c02293c85038c732e0aacc6e6737f6cb481b3bc5df83ca746.
The separate Camelyon17 B–v2 diagnostic uses the common 11-coordinate schema. Office-Home adds
disagreement, energy_shift, bn_kl, atc_acc_est, conf_drop, prior_kl_source, and cand_disagree_


                                                            35
Under review as submission to TMLR




mean; its 18-coordinate digest is a363c05a2475f3170976b8f7efc30763859e29b9cfe1714f9c4f91a4f1e892
bc. The RxRx1 authority records dimension 11 and digest 8444fd58264350b2379bff08f5ccc0259f381265d
b7a03f9e0b48415e562805e, but explicitly marks the coordinate names as unrecovered. We therefore do not
silently assign it the common names. The iWildCam record is withheld from release-level numerical claims
because its archived scorer used scikit-learn macro-F1 rather than the official WILDS label-present macro-F1
contract. Its canonical evidence metadata nevertheless recovers the common ordered 11-coordinate schema
and digest above.
A fitted model and its radius remain specific to their recorded evidence schema. Missing-input behavior
is protocol-specific. The current controlled cross-fit fail-closes malformed or nonfinite numeric matrices
to ABSTAIN, and CCT-20 returns ABSTAIN on an exact-schema or finiteness failure. The maintained
natural-shift record validator instead rejects wrong-width or nonfinite records before routing; historical feature
builders encode unavailable BatchNorm statistics as zero, and the Office-Home builder also defines zero
fallbacks for absent source logits in its energy-shift and ATC coordinates.
The controlled and archived GBRT protocols use scikit-learn’s GradientBoostingRegressor (Pedregosa et
al., 2011) with squared-error loss, 250 trees, depth 2, learning rate 0.05, subsample 0.8, and random seed
0. The fit is specific to each dataset and adapter. CCT-20 instead uses its sealed ridge model, as described
in the main-paper design in Section 7.2. Thus “adapter agnostic” describes the interface: any adapter can
propose a candidate that is evaluated and either committed or rolled back. It does not mean that a benefit
model fitted for Tent transfers validly to EATA, SAR, or another adapter.



CCT-20 trace and ridge contract.           CCT-20 uses a separate ordered trace schema:



        frozen_mean_entropy, tent_mean_entropy, entropy_change, frozen_mean_confidence, tent_
        mean_confidence, confidence_change, prediction_disagreement, marginal_jensen_shannon_
        divergence, normalized_predicted_class_effective_count, normalized_tent_update_norm,
        and batchnorm_batch_source_statistic_divergence.




The sealed gate identifies this contract as kbound_cct20_ridge_gate_v1; the release manifest binds its
canonical document by SHA-256 74db83cca3641c505735bcc9db4f76c588148f1ebb4d7d7c2b713bfbb6eda
0e7. Every feature must be present exactly once and finite. Fit-location means and population standard
deviations standardize the coordinates; a zero standard deviation is replaced by one. The ridge penalty is
10, the intercept is unpenalized, and calibration at α = 0.10 takes the maximum absolute residual across
checkpoints within each location before applying the exact-rank rule over nine locations. A support or schema
failure returns ABSTAIN; Mahalanobis distance is diagnostic and never changes the action.
Before ridge standardization, the CCT trace extractor normalizes each entropy by log 16, the Jensen–Shannon
divergence by log 2, and predicted-class effective count by 16. It defines the update coordinate as



                                               ∥θafter − θbefore ∥2
                                             max{∥θbefore ∥2 , 10−12 }



over the official Tent BatchNorm-affine parameters. The final coordinate is a channel-weighted Gaussian KL
divergence from the probe-batch statistics to the stored source BatchNorm statistics, using the layer’s Batch-
Norm epsilon. Probability values are clipped only at machine tiny before a logarithm. These normalizations
are distinct from the archived GBRT coordinates above.


                                                        36
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 21: Non-empirical feature-family summary for the maintained implementation. Each row names
one feature family, the state required to compute it, and its protocol-specific validation or fallback. All
quantities aggregate unlabeled inputs, frozen/candidate outputs, or the proposed update; the table reports
no performance result.
Family                     Representative coordinates                   Required state                 Failure handling
Predictive uncertainty     mean entropy, confidence, quantiles          frozen/candidate softmax       reject NaN or malformed probabil-
                                                                                                       ities
Marginal balance           normalized class-marginal entropy and        predicted-class marginals      fixed class count and normaliza-
                           change                                                                      tion
Model change               entropy gap, confidence drop, prediction     paired frozen/candidate        require aligned sample order
                           disagreement                                 outputs
Collapse signal            fraction above adapted confidence 0.9        candidate probabilities        threshold fixed before scoring
Distribution shift         free-energy shift, batch/running-statistic   frozen logits and source       protocol-specific validation or doc-
                           divergence                                   statistics                     umented zero fallback
Update magnitude           parameter-update ℓ2 norm                     shadow candidate delta         configuration hash must match cal-
                                                                                                       ibration
Source-calibrated proxy    ATC-style threshold estimate                 source-fixed threshold         target labels never used




These protocol-specific dimensions are part of the fitted estimator contract, not universal sufficient statistics.
Feature selection may improve prediction, but it cannot defeat the label-kernel construction in the main-paper
Lemma 1 over an unrestricted target fibre.


J     Implementation Failure Modes and Conservative Responses

The implementation must distinguish a supported negative interval from an unavailable assessment. Detectable
identity, schema, support, or calibration failures therefore retain f0 and record ABSTAIN unless a predeclared
recovery rule restores a validated state.


Table 22: Non-empirical deployment checklist. Each row maps one detectable operational failure to the
conservative response required by the implementation contract; it reports no benchmark outcome.
    Failure                                      Detection                                       Response
    Checkpoint/adapter mismatch                  stored hash mismatch                            rollback and recalibrate
    Evidence outside support                     distance or support audit                       abstain
    Missing/invalid feature                      schema and finite-value check                   retain f0 ; abstain
    Insufficient calibration size                rank k > n                                      infinite radius
    Batch too small                              minimum-size contract                           wait or abstain
    Residual transfer concern                    group/residual diagnostic                       widen or withhold claim
    Continual-state drift                        state and stream monitor                        restore the last validated state




The audit log should store a timestamp, dataset or stream identifier, checkpoint and adapter hashes, evidence
schema version, evidence vector, benefit estimate, radius, interval endpoints, action, rollback outcome, latency
components, and configuration hash. Labels, if later revealed, are joined in a separate offline audit table.
This separation makes it possible to verify that the live decision was target-label-free.


K      Prospective Natural-Shift Confirmation Protocol

CCT-20 completed a cell-outcome-unopened, internally sealed natural-shift evaluation but produced all-frozen
fail-closed service, not selective routing (Section G.1). So2Sat-LCZ42 then stopped at its development-
feasibility gate before gate calibration or target access (Section B.10). Its city-level outcome summaries are
now open, and its declared city-level target action conflicts with the runner’s checkpoint–city action unit. A
new confirmation must therefore be versioned independently, exclude those opened outcomes from tuning, and
resolve the action unit before target execution. The design below is future evidence, not a reinterpretation of
either completed record.


                                                                  37
Under review as submission to TMLR




K.1   Lock Before Target Labels



The protocol should name one source checkpoint, one candidate adapter, one evidence schema, one benefit-
model class, one calibration rule, one α, and one target-domain family. Adapter hyperparameters must
be selected on development domains and then frozen. The lock should hash the checkpoint, code revision,
configuration, calibration records, and planned scoring script. It must also name the test unit and the
multiplicity family. A later change creates a new protocol version; it does not overwrite an earlier development-
stopped or incomplete arm.
Natural heterogeneity should be built through independently defined environments rather than by pooling
whichever benchmark conditions produce opposite signs. Examples include hospitals, camera locations,
laboratory batches, acquisition days, physical devices, or visual domains. Environment membership may be
observed at deployment, but the measured cell-benefit label remains hidden. The target test environments
should be absent from estimator fitting, residual calibration, threshold tuning, and candidate selection.




K.2   Three-Way Data Separation



Development data fit hθ and select the evidence pipeline. A separate calibration set produces residuals for
Eq. (10). The held-out target set is opened exactly once after all software and configuration hashes match
the lock. Splitting adjacent frames, patches, or samples from the same session across these stages is leakage
even when filenames differ. The split must occur at the environment or session level that defines deployment
exchangeability.
The target stream is replayed identically for always-freeze, always-adapt, simple gates, KGA without a radius,
and the full empirical benefit-interval gate. Model randomness should either be frozen for paired replay or
repeated through independently trained checkpoints declared in advance. Every policy receives the same
ordered windows. Labels are stored behind a separate audit interface and are unavailable to the live decision
process.




K.3   Endpoints and Decision Rule



The primary endpoint is paired regret against each fixed policy. Success requires both baseline minus KGA
regret gaps to be positive and both predeclared intervals to exclude zero, with coverage justified for the
declared estimand and sampling model. If the intended claim concerns population risk rather than measured
cells, the protocol must also justify that transfer. The false-adapt endpoint is FAu with the adapt count
reported beside it. Secondary endpoints are FAc , adapt rate, freeze rate, abstain rate, commitment rate, task
accuracy, and latency. Conditional false-adapt is descriptive unless a separate selective-risk result is proved.
The primary benefit-interval rule remains unchanged: adapt if ∆  b − ε > 0, freeze if ∆
                                                                                      b + ε < 0, and abstain
otherwise. The experiment must not lower ε, change α, or select a different benefit regressor after observing
target labels. Exploratory sensitivity analyses may be reported, but they remain outside the primary bar.


                                                       38
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 23: Protocol requirements for a future confirmatory natural-shift KGA experiment. Each row states
what must be frozen before target labels are revealed and the corresponding audit record; the table is a
design specification, not a completed-study result.
    Component                Must be fixed                                  Audit evidence
    Model and candidate      checkpoint, adapter, optimizer, steps,         hashes and immutable configuration
                             adapted parameters
    Evidence and estimator   schema, normalization, model class, hyper-     feature contract and fitted-artifact hash
                             parameters, seed
    Calibration              split unit, residual construction, exact       calibration IDs, residuals, radius, no target overlap
                             rank, α
    Target evaluation        environments, windowing, order, exclusion      sealed manifest and one-time scoring log
                             rules, transductive/inductive candidate se-
                             mantics
    Primary inference        two paired regret gaps, cluster unit, inter-   code and random seed fixed before label reveal
                             val method
    Safety                   FAu and adapt exposure                         action log joined to labels only offline
    Multiplicity             all candidate–track arms in family             time-stamped inventory including failures
    Runtime                  end-to-end components and peak memory          raw timing rows on the target hardware




K.4      Interpreting Outcomes


Four outcomes are scientifically useful. An interval-supported reduction in regret relative to each fixed
comparator, with nontrivial ADAPT and FREEZE exposure, supports routing utility under the locked
natural-shift class. Matching the better fixed policy with few errors supports conservative commitment but
not selective routing. High abstention with low error indicates a conservative interval gate and motivates
better evidence or more calibration data. A comparator shortfall fails the predeclared routing-utility criterion;
excess false adaptation challenges the corresponding safety or calibration criterion. Both outcomes must
remain in the result family. None of these outcomes alone establishes the population band: that conclusion
still requires the declared class and its structural assumptions.




L      Theorem Dependencies, Counterexamples, and Nonclaims



The compact paper uses three related logical statements. First, the disagreement reduction is an identity
under the binary setup. Second, the population frontier is a uniform statement over a rich, declared class.
Third, the empirical coverage-to-action implication is marginal and conditional on interval coverage. The
population statements concern ∆; the reported empirical calibration concerns ∆cell . Connecting these targets
requires an additional validity argument. Neither the assumptions nor the quantifiers are interchangeable.




Why the multiclass interface does not extend the binary theorem. Under multiclass 0/1 loss,
∆ = PT (D)(pa − p0 ), where pa = PT (fa = Y | D) and p0 = PT (f0 = Y | D). Only the binary setting forces
p0 = 1 − pa . KGA may predict a multiclass scalar score difference, but that interface does not inherit the
binary population identity.


                                                                  39
Under review as submission to TMLR




Table 24: Logical dependency map for the paper’s formal and empirical statements. Each row lists a
statement’s inputs, conclusion, and excluded inference; it reports no additional empirical result, and a check
in one row does not validate premises in another row.
Statement                Inputs                                Conclusion                           Not concluded
Disagreement reduction   binary labels, 0/1 loss, µT (D) >     ∆ = 2µT (D)(M + γ)                   calibration transfer or observabil-
                         0                                                                          ity of γ
Interior impossibility   label-free fibre, β > 0, |M | < β,    evidence-identical laws with oppo-   every empirical abstention is
                         class richness                        site nonzero benefits                structural
Closed-band result       strict directional semantics and      no uniformly sound strict action     adapt/freeze have different task
                         boundary law                          on |M | ≤ β                          risk at ∆ = 0
Frontier sufficiency     declared |γ| ≤ β and fixed M          direction is fixed when |M | > β     label-free estimation of β
Coverage-to-action       marginal interval coverage for a      marginal false-adapt/freeze con-     conditional error control or risk
proposition              declared target B                     trol for B                           alignment
KGA benchmark            fitted hθ , declared residual rule,   measured regret and actions on       population-benefit coverage or
                         frozen protocol                       saved units                          universal transfer to a new do-
                                                                                                    main
Lean build               encoded definitions and assump-       kernel-checked formal statements     correctness of unencoded data
                         tions                                                                      and deployment assumptions




Why the boundary is separate. For |M | < β, the construction chooses two latent residuals that yield
opposite nonzero benefits. At |M | = β > 0, one admissible residual can make the benefit zero while another
retains the sign of M ; opposite nonzero signs need not exist. Both cases block a uniform strict commitment,
but for different reasons. At M = β = 0, every law in the zero-residual class has zero benefit under the model.
Abstention remains the maximal action only under the paper’s strict-direction convention, not because either
task-risk choice is worse.

Why a calibration residual need not be drift. Let PT = PS , with equiprobable inputs a, b, deterministic
labels Y (a) = 1, Y (b) = 0, and candidate fa ≡ 1. Set f0 (a) = 0, f0 (b) = 1, and s ≡ 12 . The candidate
is correct on half the source inputs, so this constant score is source-calibrated in the ordinary sense. Yet
disagreement occurs only at a, where the candidate is always correct. Thus M = 0, γ = 12 , and ∆ = 12 ,
although the source and target laws are identical. Conditioning on disagreement, not a distribution change,
explains the nonzero residual. The frontier requires a bound on this residual regardless of its cause. Top-label
calibration conditions on the predicted class (Gupta and Ramdas, 2022); neither it nor ordinary score
calibration automatically implies calibration conditional on disagreement.

Why coverage is the premise. The coverage-to-action proof is elementary once Eq. (9) holds: on the
coverage event, an interval wholly above zero cannot contain a nonpositive ∆cell . The scientific burden is
therefore to justify coverage for the declared outcome and calibration/deployment pair. Joint exchangeability
of the residual scores is one route; known shift correction or another valid construction may be another.
Risk alignment can explain why a useful predictor transfers, but it is not an additional logical premise after
coverage is given.

Why cell coverage is not population coverage. Consider the fixed binary predictors f0 ≡ 0 and fa ≡ 1.
Let the target input be a with probability 0.45 and b with probability 0.55, with deterministic labels Y (a) = 1
and Y (b) = 0. Population benefit is ∆ = −0.10. In a one-item evaluation cell, a fixed predictor that maps a
to +1 and b to −1 predicts ∆cell perfectly without reading the new label. With radius zero, cell coverage is
perfect, yet the gate selects ADAPT with probability 0.45 despite negative benefit under the fixed population
law. This constructed example does not contradict the main-paper Proposition 2; it shows why its covered
target cannot be changed.

Why exchangeability alone does not validate sign flips. As a separate null example, let all nine
cluster gaps equal the same fair random sign S. This vector is exchangeable, each gap is symmetric about
zero, and a global sign change preserves its law. Nevertheless, when S = +1, independent-coordinate sign-flip
enumeration for the mean gives a reference value of 1/512. That occurs with probability 1/2, not 1/512. The
vector fails Eq. (12). This example explains the required assumption; it is not a model fitted to the CCT-20
observations.


                                                                40
Under review as submission to TMLR




Why a null is not an impossibility result. A null benchmark row can arise because the true effects are
small, the candidate is one-sided, the evidence map is weak, the benefit model underfits, the radius is wide, or
calibration does not transfer. The population impossibility requires evidence-identical target laws inside the
declared class with incompatible strict directions. The canonical benchmark table does not estimate that full
fibre. It therefore reports weak or adverse empirical regimes without calling them proven unknowable worlds.

What would falsify the practical claim. The practical claim is conditional and testable. A clean target
replay with the locked pipeline can show excessive FAu , poor coverage, or regret above both fixed policies. A
checkpoint or adapter change can show that calibration does not transfer. A family-held-out split can show
that cell-level cross-fitting was optimistic. Such failures do not refute the population identity; they refute the
operational assumptions used to obtain a useful empirical interval.

M     Formalization and Artifact Scope

The Lean project under docs/research/kbound/formal/ provides a kernel-checked inventory for the theorem
names it exports. The compact paper relies on the LaTeX statements above; it does not claim that every
sentence has a one-to-one Lean theorem.
In particular, deployment-class richness, risk alignment of a learned evidence map, exchangeability of a
benchmark split, and correctness of data preprocessing remain outside the proof assistant unless separately
encoded.
The registered audit contains 142 declarations: the 65-result finite and algebraic core plus 77 probability
capstones and counterexample results. The added modules derive one-shot residual coverage from exchangeable
measurable scores, including ties; filtered Ville and bounded optional-stopping bounds; general KL/TV testing
bounds for finite product experiments; and independent bounded and martingale-difference concentration
inequalities. Their assumptions are explicit. In particular, these results do not establish exchangeability or
conditional nulls for the benchmark data, nor do they turn batch-level coverage into population-risk coverage.
The measurable target-law construction also goes beyond the original two-atom example. It fixes the input law
and off-disagreement label kernel, varies a measurable correctness field on disagreement, and integrates the
actual zero-one loss difference. With labels supported on the two predictions on disagreement, feasible margins,
and positive disagreement mass, it proves the clipped identified interval and exact strict ADAPT/FREEZE
frontiers without assuming RichAt. It does not prove richness for an arbitrary restricted deployment subclass.
One historical extension remains outside the verified scope. A measurable label swap preserves label-free
evidence and reverses population benefit, but selecting one representative from each swap orbit need not
identify the sign: distinct orbits can share the same evidence law and have opposite selected signs. Lean
verifies this counterexample and the corresponding set-theoretic fibre-consistency criterion, not a general
measurable decoder or the older H/ratio-rate extension. Those stronger claims are excluded from this compact
submission. The –full-foundations gate therefore remains failing for the sixth layer; the scoped kernel
audit checks the registered results and rejects nonstandard proof axioms.
The formal build and empirical build answer different questions. Lean checks that a proposition follows from
formal assumptions. The reconciliation scripts check that displayed aggregates match saved records under
implemented definitions. Neither checks the truth of an unencoded deployment assumption, and neither
substitutes for independent experimental replication.
The authoritative compact artifacts are therefore layered:
1. this source and its compiled PDF for the scoped narrative;
2. shared theorem inputs for the exact statements and proofs;
3. canonical JSON and generated LaTeX for numerical results;
4. the source manifest for record-level provenance;
5. package tests and Lean logs for implementation and formal checks.
Historical drafts, dashboards, and exploratory search folders can remain useful development records, but they
are not evidence sources for this compact submission unless referenced by the canonical manifest.


                                                       41
Under review as submission to TMLR




N     Reproducibility and Release Procedures

N.1   Canonical Numerical Source of Truth

The CIFAR rows and appendix reconciled point estimates share one numerical source: experiments/kbound/
results/reconciled_panels_v1/canonical_panel_results.json, whose SHA-256 is 35d4c165843de1e
ce3cb35ffb4ac50dbfcbfa33b646754e2b6d133fbdfa78c6e. Its input inventory is bound separately by
source-manifest SHA-256 03b1d2b1e9e5ed1cf835126f871ed83eb8497a1ac81727b3955af0d69eb89742; the
canonical JSON also records generator, implementation-dependency, and per-array bindings. Auxiliary arti-
facts retain narrower roles. The family analysis is the retrospective sensitivity in Table 14; the POEM/AETTA
artifact is historical; and the So2Sat record is a locked development stop. The generated result manifest
indexes each reported claim and scope. None of these auxiliary records overwrites the canonical point-estimate
panel.

N.2   Reproduction Pipeline

The full gate uses Python 3.12 and requirements-research.txt. The smaller paper-only profile does not
include the Torch imports used during repository-wide test collection. The model runtime uses PyTorch
(Paszke et al., 2019). From the repository root, the release command is:

        KBOUND_PYTHON=.venv/bin/python bash
        docs/research/kbound/runbooks/release_candidate.sh all


It runs the read-only preflight, validates and regenerates result authorities, executes software and formal
checks, builds the four current role PDFs, renders every PDF page, and emits release checksums. A DOCX
may be produced as a nonrelease convenience artifact, but it is not a fifth current role. The gate consumes
frozen model outputs and never launches training.
For presentation-only rebuilding from already validated authorities, the command is:

        SOURCE_SNAPSHOT_COMMIT=<12-hex-source-commit>
        BUILD_LONG_TMLR=1 BUILD_SHORT_MAIN=1
        BUILD_SHORT_SUPPLEMENT=1 BUILD_FULL_REPORT=1 bash
        docs/research/kbound/scripts/build_pdfs.sh


This shorter command validates the frozen authorities, regenerates presentation tables and figures, and builds
the four maintained role PDFs. It does not replace the full release gate or create new empirical evidence.

N.3   Calibration Identity and Implementation Contract

The maintained API binds an interval-gate record to the checkpoint, adapter configuration, evidence schema,
benefit estimator, residual construction, safety level, and scoring unit. The deployment path must fail closed
when any identity differs. KGA.certify_evidence requires a frozen estimator, the exact schema, a protocol
hash, and a separate residual set. The lower-level certify function is an audit interface; it does not construct
evidence or validate transfer by itself.

N.4   Formalization and Lean Scope

Lean artifacts and validators check the encoded theorem cores and selected finite constructions. Formalization
of learning-theory results has precedent, including a Rademacher-complexity generalization bound (Sonoda et
al., 2025); we cite its pinned 2025 version as context, not as a proof of K-Bound’s assumptions. These checks
do not certify dataset correctness, preprocessing, empirical transfer, exchangeability, or every deployment
assumption stated in prose. Machine checking strengthens the statements it encodes; it does not validate the
benchmark pipeline outside those statements.


                                                      42
Under review as submission to TMLR




N.5      Release Checklist and Audit Logs

The Phase-1 provenance audit matches all 106 canonical source/compact hash pairs, all 10 recoverable
configuration hashes, and all 6 archived checkpoint hashes; it also records a 21-file current-code snapshot.
Historical runs that did not serialize full identity remain explicitly partial rather than being backfilled. The
release gate runs reconciliation tests, claim-ledger and result-manifest validation, manuscript checks, LaTeX
builds, checksum verification, and visual PDF inspection. Build logs, the canonical manifest, the provenance
seal, and the final PDFs are archived together.


Table 25: Release-stage audit contract. Each stage has an explicit authority and a fail-stop condition,
preventing a mixed-generation or partially verified manuscript set from being published as current.
 Stage                      Checked authority                                       Failure response
 Numerical reconciliation   canonical panel, source manifest, CCT manifest and      stop on hash or claim mismatch
                            receipt
 Source binding             reviewed source snapshot and release-role map           stop on missing or ambiguous identity
 Compilation                four maintained TeX drivers from one source closure     stop on compile, reference, or overflow
                                                                                    defect
 Structure and anonymity    page structure, fonts, metadata, links, and anonymous   reject malformed output or identity
                            TMLR author fields                                      leakage
 Visual inspection          fresh rendering of every maintained PDF page            repair clipping, blank regions, or-
                                                                                    phaned captions, or displaced floats
 Publication                exact four-PDF inventory and SHA-256 manifest           publish atomically; never mix genera-
                                                                                    tions



Repository URLs and author-identifying metadata must be withheld or redacted for a double-blind venue.
The local paths above describe artifact roles without providing a public identity link.




                                                          43
